WAR HNNETON NATIONAL OFMCE
prerensived

Tmeye cana ow Warten, BG mE Ree a Pm cD Soba

Nay 22, 1995
‘The Honorabie Wendell Ford

United States Senate
Washington, D, ¢. 20510

Dear Senator Ford:

The American Civil tipertioa Union unde that Senators
Tom Harkin of Towa and Bill Bradley of Maw Jersey will again
introduce their bill to limit the tax deductibility of tobacco
advertising and promotion as a business expense today. The S
jected this proposal in the 102na and 103rd Congrei
a that enactment of the legislation would infringe H
rights because the proposal targets speach
aapoueing a particular viewpoint on 4 legal, commercial product for
unfavorable treataent.

Attempta to censor or burden advertising of legal products is
based on the wrongheaded pramise that the people do not know what
ie good for them. Silencing tha speech, or in the case of thie
Bropogal, farcing cutbacks in speach through the imposition of
Alscriminatory financial burdens, ie akin to asserting “whet the
people don't know won't hurt thes.

Fortunetely, the Firat Amendment prohiiite such abusive
paternali: Several years eyo, the Supreme Court invalidated New
York's "Son of Sam" law of ‘the grovnde that = ‘atatute is
breaunptivaly inconsistent with the Firat Amendment if it impos

& Financial ‘burden on aspaskere because of the content of thair

gpsech, |, flea & Schuster. Log, x. Mambaxe of the Hew York State
Eee ies ies ig. 112 8-Co. 991). In doing so, the Court
¥eagficned itu 1984 declaration that “regulations which permit the

Government to discriminate an the basis of the content of ©
Measage cannot be tolerated under the Firat Amendaent.”

The conclusion that the Harkin-Bradley proposal violates the
Constitution ia not aitured by the fact that tobacco advertising is
sommercial speech. Just last year, the Suproma Court reaffirmed
that ‘(truthful advertiaing related to lawful activities 1s
entitled to the protections of the First Amendment.“ ipaneay.
Flerida_noard of 62 UBL 4803, 4505 (Jun. 13,
1994) (quoting Ta 5 » 455 U8. 191, 203 (1962). “Those
protections ‘mean "that ‘government hes no power to restrict

expr: ion beacause of is Retuaga, its ideas, ite subject matter,
Police Denartzant v. Moe!

or its content." v. Moaiay, 408 U.s. 92, 95
(1972),

TICT 0006002

eae in Goer Eaton noe ema Sam Cea tare aan Coe Weceiaew leone
Neti rowers He a ao so a The aaciounce <A ®

