?
subject:

To:

bi Inter-office Memorandum

CIGARETTE CONCEPT TO ASSURE RIR A Date: December 4, 1973
LARGER SEGMENT OP THE YOUTH MARKET

We. Re A. Blevins, Je. From: Frank @. Colby
Director, Marketing Planning

Summary

It 4s suggested to develop new RJR youth-appeal brand based on che
concept of going back - at least halfvay.- to the technological design of
the WINSTON end other Filter cigarettes of the 1950's.

Memorandum:

Thais vill summarize the suggestions that I made to you by telephone
yesterday.

It 4s apparently establishe? beyond @ doubt that Philip Morris’
Marlboro cigarette has a much stronger hold on the up snd coming new
Beneretion of smokers than WINSTON cr our other brands. It seens to me
that 2 “me too” brand stands very Metle chance of changing this situation.
What 1s needed 4¢ @ nev concept.

Another condition seens to me to be a need to be able to develop auch
a cigarette for the imediate future end net many months hence,

My suggection covers all these conditions. Tt is bastcally to go back
as such as possible - probably-at least halfway ~ tovards the old filter
cigarettes, i, e., the clgarettes of the 1950's prior to the Surgeon
General's Report. These cigarettes had the following three main character-
Astics as distinguished from today's cigarettes:

1. They delivered more flavor (tar).
2. They delivered more "enjoyment" or "kicks" (nteotine).
4, They delivered more puffs - at least 20% more. (A fringe
benefit which may or may not be promotable ts that such a
cigarette would develop a much less percentage of aidestresn .
smoke conpared to today's cigarette. This decrease would
be roughly in proportion to the increased number of puff

The reasons for these differences are not so much between the tobacco of
today end that of che 50/s, but the paper (ouch more porous today) and the
fLlter material (nuch sore ‘absorbent today).

In my judement, for public relations reasons it vould be impossible to
go back all the way to the 1955 type cigarettes. As far as tar and nicotine
im the smoke are concerned, I believe {t should be posstble to achieve the
desired effect by going to a tar level of today's Pall Ma?l (non-filter
type) of about 29 mg tar and 1.8 ng nicotine. Still, with an old style
FLleer, any desired additional nicotine "kick" could be easily obtained
through pil reguistion.

2eLo 5006

paa-nn 170
