May th R, Savoce

FROM: Harvay H, Gordin

SUBJECT: Status Report ~ DATE: September 28, 1994
3rd Guarter 1984

Thie report summarizes my major activities within the division fram

July, 1984 to present.

PROJECT 2X/TS8 / :
A ZX/TSB team meoting was hald September 20, 1984. Results of the
latest internel end externel QOA teats were presented at thie meeting.
The products evsiuated in these studies were also tested by NFO pansle.
At the tims of the masting NFO results were not available, thus it wa
nat possible to determine what, if any, corralations exiet between
these date. In general the FFLT 2X/TSB products Cintarnal GDA) showed
nany differenci compared to the WINSTON LT, and Marlboro Lt centro!
products, The two FFLT ZX/TSH prototypes evaluated in this study were
not perceived 8 being different fram pach other on ths majority of the
attribut two FF 2K/TSB prototypes (external OA) were not
perceived as baing perceptually different from each other or from the
WINSTON and Marlboro control products on most ettributes evaluated.
Also, #3 has been the case in previous FF ZX/TSB tests, WINSTON and
Merlboro were not perceived as being perceptually different ovarail.

Formal reports for both tha FF and FFLT evaluations have been issued.
Anne Syvaeth and Kethy Needs sieo attended the team nesting. [t ia my
understanding that Arine now has ful) responsibilty for sensory testing
of project 2X .

NH DISCRIMINATION PANEL /

@ scrosning is scheduled for the NM Discrimination pans! the week of
October 1. Dus te achaduling conflicts, the screening ix te
take about three weeks to complete. All currently active panelists, os
) Seven new possible panel menbers will participate in the
ning. The information obtainad fron this screening will be useful
sing the current panelist discriminatory abilities, and in the
selection of new panel members.

Kim Taot has been instructed in the vet-up, and analysis of
discrimination tests, the use of Lotus 1-2-3 for the monitoring of
perfaraance/attendance, and the use of TOP for the ganpration af
bellots and cussion memos. 1 feet certain that Kin is fully prepared
te take reeponsibilty for the WH Discriminstion panel.

£ee2 Lonos
