190730316

THE Sener

AMERICAN ue

TOBACCO

COMPANY

AMERICAN BULL DURMAM © CARLTON LUCKY STRIKE Matig
nasty MONTCLAIR PALL MaLt TAREYTON

April 26, 1994

TO: Field Sales Orgaulzatlon Employees

Last year was a year of change that had a profound effect on our industry and
‘our Company. It was the beginning of a new business reality for all of us...one thal
requires a lean, mean and tough meniality to survive, As die best sales organization
in the industry, you accepted every challenge you faced with enthusiasm and a sirong
determination to succeed. And you succeeded because of your hard work, dedication
and commitment to be the best of the best,

‘It is now that I ask you to accept the toughest challenge you have ever faced
with the same enthusiasm and determination you have accepted all the others.

The announcement by American Brands of its agreement to sell American
Tobacea to B.A.T. Industries, p.l.c., may have raised your concerns about the future.
While I have no crystal ball that will ell me the future, I can tell you that American
Tobacco’s commitment to the success of our Company is strong and unwavering.

‘With the plans and programs under “Operation Restoration", we are off to an excellent
‘art this year and are exceeding all key performance goals. We have shown the
competition that we won't roll over and have regained the momentum on out priority
brands. We must not fet up!

To help alleviate your concerns during what will be a period of uncertainty as
the sale process and ensuing transition period proceed, attached is a devailed letter
describing enhanced benefits for members of the Sales Organization should a sale to
B.A.T. Industries be finalized. In addition, we will be having Field meetings the
weeks of May 16th and 23rd with atl members of the Field Sales Organization to
answer any questions you may have. You will be notified within the next week as to
the exact date and location of your meeting,

‘As Don Johnston has said, you can be assured that our commitment to people
a5 our most important sesouree will remain throughout. And, as a Sales Organization
that has built a reputation on pride, professionalism and integrity, we simply cannot
falter during the process. We must be strong and proceed with determination as we
maintain out momentum and grow our business under “Operation Restoration".

SIX STAMFORD FORUM, TTELETHONE 203 3154900
PO. BOXIOD FACSIMILE: 105 3528184
STAMFORD CONNECTICUT 049042380

RODUCED FROM BSW WEB SITE
