Subject: Weekly Highlights

To:

Inier-office Mernoiandurs:

+ December 7, 1982

Date:
Dr, Ds H. Pieht From: J. P. wheeler
Conponent. Technology

ADHESIVE TECHNOLOGY:

vn

Bive Plastic Closed Head Drums for Cigarette Seam Adhesiv

All cigarette seam adhesive 1s to now be put into distinctive blue plastic closed
heed drums to avoid adhesive mix-ups in the plants, Recently, two instances of
packer adhesive being used for cigarette seaming resulted in considerable expense
for rejected production,

PACKAGING TECHNOLOGY :

2)

2

ay

Cigarette Packaging:

Focus group sessions were attended in Washington, D, C, this past week to
qualitatively investigate unique packaging design concepts with cigarette smokers.
Six “different” pack designs were presented and discussed with male and female
stiokers between the ages of 18 and 34 years of age. The groups were also divided
between soft. pack and crushproof box users, The overall general consensus was that
with the exception of one package (the Export A, slide and shell style) all of the
unique concepts could possibly be either “tried” or maybe used for a "special
occasion" but no one was willing to switch totally from either their soft pack or
box packages. Soft pack users would only use a box when they had to and box users
would take a soft pack only when their "box" was not available. It would appear
that anew package design is only going to be suitable and accepted with a new
cigarette product.

BRIGHT Complimentary 12's:

‘At the suggestion and recommendation of this department, a demonstration was made
to the Manufacturing personnel at No. 12 on packing the BRIGHT 12's in the
"modified" slide pack to be used for national introduction, It was suggested that
consideration be given to packing the "promotion" in house as opposed to “in the
field.® ‘The suggestion was accepted and the bottom line savings as estimated by
the Purchasing Department. will be $65,000 plus on this particular promotion.

Cigarette Case Overwrap: Peuts tin fob Nie

As part of Integrated Technology's,Phase IT Program update, a presentation was made
giving the results, thus far, in the case overwrap study in Phoenix, Shreveport,
and Chicago. Case overwrap was reported as being of very significant benefit in
Phoenix, but irCconsequential 4n the other two cities.

3
2
3
3
3

