Law OFFICES oF
DOYLE & NELSON
150 Capliol Streat

JON, DOYLE P.O. Box 2708 MAILING ADDRESS:
RAGE NELEON Augusta, ME 04998-2709 PO. BOX 2708
207-622-6124
DANIEL?. RLEY, J Seer
MICHAEL A HODGINS 207-825-5360
Apsil 23, 1997

Copy

Andrew Ketterer, Esq.

Attomey General

Department of the Attomey General

6 State House Station

Augusta, ME, 04333 :

Dear Drew:

“This leter will follow-up our recent conference conceming the use by the Department
of Human Services ("DHS") and its personnel of ASSIST monies. As we reviewed the
ASSIST files it became clear that there were theee areas of possible failure to follow the
Jaw and inappropriate conduct. Generally, those include inappropriate use of the monies
for lobbying purposes; failure to follow the state’s established procedure for bidding
contracts or any paralle! federal procedures; and an inappropriate use of monies and/or
personnel (9 influence clients of law firms representing tobacco companies.

Let me address the areas in the following fashion:

bbying activities. It clearly was understood from the outset by DHS and our
Legislature that taxpayer dollars which were dispensed under DHS direction were not
to be used to unlawfully and improperly fund lobbying activities. That is not only the
Jaw, but it has been a given and an understanding amongst all of us who have been
involved in this matier for a number of years. The supplemental documents which we
filed with you clearly indicate that the state, its employees and importantly grantees of
ASSIST funds used monies to lobby. (The legislation this year which was sponsored
by a Maine legisiator to repeal the limited local preemption provisions in the statute is
but one example. ‘That attempt has its genesis in the Portland ASSIST Program and is
docurnented in our notebook entitled Survey of DHS ASSIST Files.)

‘We believe that you shoutd launch an immediate investigation in conjunction with the
State Auditor's Office to determine the responsibility of state officials who knew of,
condoned or encouraged illegal lobbying practices and determine what steps the State
of Maine should take to put an immediate end (o these activities,

9960 “vec

