a ‘DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES Pubte Health Service

Oifice of the Assistant Secretary
for Health

Mz Thomas F. Ahrensfeld

Senior Vice President and
General Counsel

Philip Morria, Inc.

100 Park Avenue

New York, New York 10017

Dear Mr, Ahrenefeld: ‘

1 am writing you and other cigarette uenufacturing firms to acknowledge
the replies I have received over the past several months to my letter of
July 21, 1980. 1 have waited until now to do this so that I could frame
@ single response to the letters 1 have received-

Wy letter asked you and the other manufacturers to provide us with a
list of the substances you add to tobacco in manufacturing your brands.
I asked that you provide us this information because duting a long and
careful study of ali avaflable evidence, we determined that information
on those substances actually in use ds not publicly available.

In response to my letter, several companies sent us copies of the 1972
R. J. Reynolds monograph, entitied “Tobacco Flavoring for Suoking
Products" and one company sent a 1974 article updating this paper.
Together, these two sources ist well over a thousand substances. | Two
companies ade mention of another list, entitled "List of Permitted
Additives to Tobacco Products” issued in 1978 by Britain's Independent
Scientific Committee on Smoking and Health. This lists over 300
substances.

In sending ws these lists, all of which are in the public demain, no
company identified what substances it actually uses or gave assurance
that the additives it dees use are linited to these substances.

As you will reueuber, the Congress asked our Department, in Section 403
of the Health Services and Centers Amendments of 1978, to study the

health risks associated with smoking cigarettes containing "any substances
comonly added to commercially manufactured cigarettes". In order to

carry on such a study, it 18 obviously necessary ro know what these
substances are and to develop a satisfactory protocol by which their

health effects can be assessed. :

Te 4s within our capability to develop a protocol, but we cannot
independently identify the substances with available scientific technology
and a reasonable expenditure of resources, We must turn co the nanufactuver
for this information and we have asked for it on a voluntary basis. Manu-
facturers of food, beverages, medicines and drugs are required to disclose
information on their products.

6STOzzZL00T .
