COVINGTON & BURLING
1201 PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE, W. W.
R0,B0x 7566

WASHINGTON, D.c.20044
aon o3 es

on)

dune 20, 1988

MEMORANDUM TO COMMITTEE OF COUNSEL

:
ee, REr Summary of Mark-up of H.R. 1125, the
et
Federal Product Liability Bill

The House Energy and Conercea@emmittee on June 14
completed ite markzyp and voted 30 to Liste report H.R. 1115,
the federal produc tlity bill. -

As accepted by the Committee, H.R. 1115 would
establish causes of action for negligence, strict liability,
and intentional wrongdoing. The bill would limit strict
jiability claims to design defects, failure to warn, breach of
an express warranty, and construction defects, The bill
contains a section that vould preclude liability for producte
that have inherent characteristics known to the ordinary
Person who uses the product. The state of the art provision
in H.R. 1115 would establish a defense to liability, but the
bill also would preserve state law governing the plaintiff's
prina facie case, so that if state law places an affirmative
burden on the plaintif£, e.g., to prove the existence of an
alternative design, that burden would be’ preserved under
E.R. 1115. The federal state of the art defense would not
apply i€ the court (rather than a jury) decided that a
“product is so unsafe compared to its usefulness that it
should not have. been marketed.”

When introduced in 1986, H.R. 1115 contained a
definition of "product" that did not apply to tobacco and
alcohol, thereby excluding those products from the bill's
Coverage. In addition, asbestos products were excluded from
Most of the bill's provisions.

@.R, 1115 cont ng several provisions of interest to
specific industries, e.9., a defense to punitive damages for
Grugs and medical devices, a 25 year statute of repose for
capital goods, and a defense for product sellere when the
manufacturer is subject ta suit.

humber of amendments and rejected many more. This memorandum
summarizes amendments of interest to the industry, including

e

During the lengthy mark-up, the Committee accepted a

e

both accepted and rejected amendments. 8

