August 17, 1995

I am attaching a copy of # FAX received this morning from Dr.
Otho Easterday, chairnan of FEMA's Anethole Task Force, as a
followup to his phone call yesterday.

Dr. Easterday’s communication includes a brief review of the
anethole group's history as well as a request for a modest
contribution from Lorillard which will help finance the remaining
FENA-sponsored toxicology studies needed to establish a permanent
A.D.I. for anethole. Almost $1 million has already been spent on
a serics of matabolism and other studies, The majority of this
funding has come from a single liqueur producer; This company has
offered another $150,000 toward the final 28-day studies which
are needed to set a permanent A.D.1. if the F.E.M.A. membership
can come up with the remainder.

I think that Lorillard should contribute to this effort. we
might consider the following:

1, Anethole is of significant interest to our company and
industry. Establishment of a sound A.D.I. is clearly in the best
interest of all anethole users and their customers.

2. The purpose of our ingredients Testing Program has always been
to address scientific data gaps relating to the satety of
flavoring ingredients. FEMA’s anethole project clearly has the
Same purpose. Our company’s contribution may therefore be drawn
from the current year's Testing Program operating budget. My
current estimate is that the program will be underspent by
roughly $500,000 at the end of the budget year, so funds are
available.

3. Dr. Easterday’s solicitation letter suggests a contribution of
$1,000 from Lorillard. I was, frankly, suprised at how modest
his request was. Naturally, FEMA would be delighted to receive
contributions in excess of the suggested amount. Perhaps we
should consider contributing more than the $1,000 suggested.

Dr. Basterday has invited me to join the FEMA anethole task
force. I am familiar with other members of the PEMA Safety
Evaluation Coordination Committee [Tom Vollmuth (Pepsi}, Scott
Appleton {B&W}, Bruce Doneyer (P&G}] who are involved with this
issue and am interested in participating. 1 would also like to
contribute some of our unpublished ancthole dats for inclusion in
the committees final report (target February, 1997). 1 will
plan to attend the nest mecting at the FENA fall symposium
(November?) to explore this further.

Dan week

bS9zez69
