OLR teede hoe 742 A808 RUR-SaLES EX

Lo SALES ELEC, ove 1200 xy IE TRO ‘

sree Young, Mor, Wanlas, ls D., Cuabinbuan,D, Oval Gary, itien, RERSE A ESD Boon 002
at. Ceebary, 8. Ford, tre P. Ceury Kev, Condel, Sharon §. Adaessl A

pee
Frame PeLamprat; O=Michuel: Int; Onrmeed, Por Ame Cou SP. Gi
Posted: 122WbE 22:07

$2236 619

‘Opened
Sunject Moonight 1067 Plane

‘Anwo appraen tha ond of yaar wanted ta give you each a band's up 4a 0
tora of Fe tinge that wa wt ba dolng wih Mocndghe during the eaity
partot et year, | hope teins. bs holt ts preparing "97

Fotowing discussions with manvegemanl about our year ane resuna, iiss
Coen decided that we ik continue in twat market through Hay 97. During
‘art Sine ve Wl bx fonking 0 optimize ou afl in maria we we
peak odetional share und eanaumes data,

“The folowing ore things on our plale for nary Janumy V7. Please reviey
‘ete and cal ma wih any quevtone of concerns,

arctic ane Moongh ond te ARSED
‘Nonrllght areata in aaty March, House Blend isan aromatic Bina of
tobacco thet ues tha Royal Comfort Ravor weer to deliver a plsasant
“pipetia? arora and oe unutuaby 160m Eats, “The packaging and name ae
denigoed  afcct te fantnga apsoctated wilh wn aromas bleed of

otee, while De nets ia fot cotiea Ben” consumers have (OOH

raaponded io tha sanocistion with cates,

Our hope ia tht by ‘aunching House Blond, you wil have a Wot to keep
Mtoonighte Irae keen ex wal ata way to dtd wh low paroreing SKU.
“the dacreion of your rape, our thoughts that you ean Wace xt wkrw
SLs fr tha naw brand. Consumare have confed fr Us iat 20 met
Moanigh brands on tha clepay confuses ther and eon up the Hoon
lppeeranan (nett action riaiar cofeem abet QKU profiraion)

eges oats

Sales planning wl bo

touch wth you ta comrenenicate the necessary lie,
(fac! shants, ot.) th the mantina

ing
‘deetvion wha the cow year,

_ ye woud theta work ward a Month presence at real that vAlaae
Tato four performers in abch market and capings only fhoee brand, Ase fe ct ®
Pe cor recomenancegn i hat yOu Tugs out these oA! nya fr HOUSE, y a ‘
BLEND suring the March introduction, v "

EXISTING SALES MATERIALS

cared en te fonds proved by eoen of youn out recat any 6 f
deipract ef optimizing out POS resources, the following pre raberslt fi rs ye ty
vadatonal quaton tet you sl be neecing sPeough May #7. We ft bt N F)
Aecating tha remainder ofthe cacontinued ams early in Janus.

mm ee are “Ems sn ure

