THE NATIONAL OBSERVER WOW JONES & COMPANYING,
. Podlis hers

may 19, 1976

Mr, Wm. D. Hobbs
Chaiyman of the Board and President
R, J. Reynolds Tobacce Co.
Winston-Salem, NC 27102

Dear Me. Hobbs:

About a year ago I joined Dow Jones and Company as General Manager of the National
Observer. As you know, The Observer is one of the most influential newspapers

in the United States. T was therefore somewhat surprised to discover that the
nation's leading newspaper advertiser, R. J, Reynolds Tobacco Co., was not advertising
in The National Observer. .

Last week, my associate advertising director, Jim Sullivan, returned from a series

of meetings with your marketing people in Winston-Salem. He was courteously received
and reported that there was general agreement among your marketing and advertising

people that The National Observer mects the media criteria for several of your

brands. However, they indicated that there was an unwritten policy in the R. J. Reynolds
Tobacco Company that no advertising was to be placed in The National Observer.

Apparently this problem relates to an incident dating back to 1971 concerning a story
which was written about Winchester,

Frankly, 1 find this problem, if it exists, difficult to understand. I just cannot
believe in this day and age that any sophisticated corporation would use economic
leverage to influence the editorial position of the press. I can easily imagine a
client becoming extremely annoyed at a publication's editorial position, but I

can't imagine a company maintaining that position for five years, thereby ignoring

a valuable matketplace. 1 do know that Dow Jones editors tend te be independent

and our editorial positions do not always meet with the full approval of our advertisers.
It is, however, this very independence and integrity which has made Dow Jones
Publications among the most trusted periodicals in Amexica.

At any rate, this problem, whether real or imagined, seems to have been keeping our -
teo companies from doing business together. [would IiR8, if possible, to lay this

ghost to vest and would very mich appreciate the oppéitunity ey -assise HLS natCee

WiUIi-ou: privately at-your-wotventence in Winstor-Salgh. oa

Ibyity cal JouF deoreTEy next week E07

aeting. -

Goraially,

James 8. Horton —

General Manager

BH bay

see Istos

