. - ‘ga ¢

Subjects Program to de-cam The Deter Ausist 12, 1895

* T -xtedty of >,
Halnetres send Sidestroun De OF ie W2

Tot Distribution From: ‘Dr. Re Deakin
| Bre & Coggins

biolegteal active

sof “The folYowing Geseribes @ piogran to compara the/toxicity of
nadnstrasn and aiden: & tlered\ approach is/propored in
order to ost efficiently ansese the conparative (toxfcity)at tha
tyo components of tobacco enoke. The proposed tier is outdinea in
Stare I, The ordteria for advancing to thd next highest tier fe
tne establiahnent of significant differences between mainetreas
and eiéastrean snoke in testa within a tier| ‘K unique and critical

t of this program ie that groups of ahimals will be exposed

ainultaneously to mainstream and eldectrean smoke generated from

the sama wource.

It 4a proposed that Tier I vould begin with a development
This phase is required in order to establish and validate
Generation conditions for subsequent Inhalation studies. In
addition, condensate trom mainstream and sidestrean enoke vill be
collected for performance of in-vitro genotoxicity evaluations.
Hainatream and aidestrean oncka will be generated using a Battelle
deaigned Mark IIT smoking machina (Sea Figure II). Briefly,

these machines provide fresh sstosols of smoke, to animals exposed

‘only. The age of the smcke when presented to animals {a about

d TPH, 1s exsentiad in the proposed approach to obtain comparative
co/toxioity data. Sucking conditions will be established stich that 4n, we

bet both groups aerosola with TPM concentrations of 2.0, 1.5, 1.0, 01
0.5 xg per liter are presented fo the aniuals. Gaa phaca analysis ¢jple+

9 Et inelude quantitation of acataldehyde, acrolein, carbon

no
0.2 seconds) the nachines are designed to prevent re-breathing of

j uw exhAled auoka, The machines are capable of exposing up to 96 pry

: anizele eimulteneoualy to mainstraan enoke. With minor Arh
oditications to tha xachines, additional aniuale can

I sinultaneously be exposed to sideatrenm sxoke. We consider the :

Sxposure of groupe of animale to xainetrean and “pe
| sidestream sacke from tha saxe product, at comparabla doses of J
{

monoxide, formaldehyde, hydrogen cyanide, oxides of nitrogen,
nicotine, total aldehydes, and TPH. Particle size distribution
(MMAD) and associat etrio standard deviation will also be
d cade supsotor and/or an appropriate
tonated particle counter. Particulate material from
machine enoked cigarettes will ba collected on filter pads for

4 Performance of in-vitro genctexteity asrays.

After completion of the developuent phase, & 1é-day repeated
expomura (noxebenly} study 4e propoved. ten male and ten fenale
N

arnined using

SnéS cmos

