WR} CORPIDENTIAL

BUR INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM .
PRODUCT & APPLIED TECHNOLOGY - ‘PRODUCT DESIGN DIVISION

October 17, 1989

To: M. EB. Stowe
FROM: D. E. Townsend

BUBJECT: Weekly Highlights
: Product Design Division

20 3 PE SHELP-12}

A series of four prototypes, CT-1917, has been made for Consumer
Testing (mail out 10/9). Surplus cigarettes from the production
for this test provide the first opportunity to study shelf-life
characteristics of cigarettes which incorporate G7-12. Although
the limited amount of cigarettes available requires small-scale
testing, this project will generate baseline data and provide
direction for the planning of a more comprehensive aging study.

This project consists of two parts; an isotherm study and an aging
study. The objective of the isotherm study is to determine the
effects of moisture at 75°F on sensory, analytical, and physical
properties of cigarettes containing alternate filler materials.
Results of this study will help define an acceptable moisture range
for the prototypes and aid in setting moisture limits. The
objective of the aging study is to determine the changes in
sensory, analytical, and physical properties of the cigarettes
under various environmental conditions. This study will involve
aging of the cigarettes under hot/wet, hot/dry, and normal
environmental conditions. Due to sensory scheduling restraints,
only 1917-D will be tested. This prototype has a blend of 613-23
and 67-12 (50/50} and the Eousta low sidestrean cigarette paper.
CAMEL Lts. will be used as the control in this study. Cigarettes
will be sampled and tested at time 0, 1, 3, and 4 months.

CIGARETTE IGNITION PROPENSITY

Replicate mock-up ignition propensity tests of Virginia Super Slins
100 an@ Capri 100 cigarettes are complete. The testing protocol
used by the National Bureau of Standards allows up to three
relights of a cigarette if it self-extinguishes before the test is
complete. With this protocol, Virginia Super Slims 100 showe a 10%
reduction in ignition propensity relative to conventional

f0z8 ee20g
