10/12/1908 11128 RIR TDC WINSTON-SALEM NC 919 741 S327 Pes

I
RW
A. 3, REYNOLDS INTEUMATIONAL, EMC, - ETORNOVAY HoUeE
INTER-OPPICE KEMORANDUK
Ty) A io
DATE =: 22 July Ape Haley
70 T Prec ew mer tan ee
us SECRET
PROM Rtuhard 4 Nareorultio ADORCABEE ONLY
suMner + Hoe Nea. By

On 24 July @ Dane and ¥ wer with De Row in London te review hip recent
viet ¢o Winston-Salem and ¢o axplore nent steps for the UX. Dr Roe
summarised hiv discussions in Vinston-Balew, including the fect that be felt
the Auetvalian nicotine ayspostus tn Decembar 1987 shoclé provide valuable
ssteriel, 2 oantioned cher BAT hed Just prepared a paper on addiction ands
copy tw attached. A copy should. be provided to Dr Roe. .

Wo than dlacueaed the UK situation, Dr Ros felt it would be very helpful 1f
Froggatt, Waller (suoretavy to the Independent Scientific Committes on
Secking and Kealth) end one or tvo additional Coaaic abere could vis
Vinston-Sal of briefing he had received, He suggested,
6 be included. An a firet step Dr Roe

e with Froggece one-on-one to explore

of a Vinston-Salen briefing could bs achieved. The
overall objective of a briefing would be to create the proper fepragston, io
Father than {nundating them with information tt should be deuonstcated chet
a great denl of dara, the project fe « serious one, ve ate
avare of the things that need to be Gone, we have done cur teste, ote. ALL
Of this vould be directed at ereating « comfort Level with the propostcton.
Detatie could go to the Coantttes at a Later date, poseibly with « futd
Prosontation to the full Comaitten,

De Koo suggested thet W Hayes write to Froggatt requesting # seating in W
Ire ‘The letter should ask for an hour of hte tles, indicating there
aes matter of Snportance co discuss but not bentioning SPA specifically.
During @ subsequent phone conversation wich W Hayes, RJH van requested £0
grate « Lecter (attached), The Letter should be followed up by
from U Rayan, Froggate’n phone quaber 1a (0232) 6679

Dr Roo suggeated it pizht be possible to avoid having to br:
Couatttes and this poine should be explored vith Froggett, fe, how much
inforeattion vould be required and how o present it. In che ovent the full
Conattces had to be involved then hopefully ve could fist have the briefing
of Froggatt and a fev othe

De Ros azein charactorieed Feopgatt as ar
slready “planced sone ssede” (Waller too).
vaquest by W Hayon to visit hin,

