BJ_REYNOUDS PARTISAN MOVEMENT

WEEKLY ACTIVITY REPORT

To: MIKE PHILLIPS

FROM: ED JENKINS

SUBJECT; 5222/1 WEEKLY REPORT

REGION: KENTUCKY, TENNESSEE, WEST VIRGINIA

iy HOPKINSVILLE-

Rosemary Hightower is in the process of @ recruiting drive interrupted by a steoke. She is
planning the first "Todd County Smokers" Rights Picnic" which will include music, food, games and
of course, new members. The group is expecting 40 -60 people to show and bring guests tot just
perspective members. They fool that this way more people will see not only that the group exists, but
productive and fun to jain.

City LOUISVILLE

‘Alden Gibbons and group will have their monthly mceting Thursday the 23rd, ‘This meeting fs important
in that the group fs rebuilding after the attempted palace coup by Bob Kyle. Though Kyle did @ tang up job
88.2 former group metuber he also 43d @ bang up Job of ripping the group up. Alden and T have not only sent
personal letters (0 all members, but have talkod to most of these people and the crisis seems 10 be over, but
the job of teinstlling group confidence is sill ahcad.

‘A deawr if not a success sory In Loublle. Ter) Certoll who works for Kentucky Fried Chicken called the
{#800 10 inform us that the company Is thinking about a smoking policy. ‘Teri, who is on the newly formed
smoking committee (7 smokers, 7 nonsmokers and 1 neutral), needed information on workplace smoking
(quickly because the commitice had only roceived 24 hour notice of the mecting. She felt that this was (0
facilitate a steamroTter over the smokers lead by a committee member who had more es less forced the issue
in the first place, Leading up to the moting Iwas able to fax her information on the workplace and ETS issues
4s well as government and medical studies on ETS and indoor air qualty. Just before the meeting we went
‘over possible discussion points and ant issues.

“Teri told post meeting that once the mocilng began it was fatty obvious that the anti’ fol that this
meeting was just window dressing and that the *evll deed" was alteady done, but they were leery ofall of the
material stacked In front of each smioker. When Teri and her group successfully chaflenged the opening issues
‘with their own facts and figures and asked that the opposition supply documents supporting their claims, the
meeting was postponed until the middie of June due the fact that the members (Le, the antis) didn't have
‘adequate time to prepare. Teri did got the neutrals promise that the company would 1ook into the ventilation
system as 8 potential problem to the workers pointing out thal smoke is always blared solely bocause poople
‘ean see it. She did a fantastic job and we are continaing to work toward the next meeting.

ily:BOWLING GREEN -PADUCAH-OWENSBORO-

“These 3 groups are working against an aroa wide hospital ban. The groups were told by the hospitats that
they would Tose Medicore/Modicaid funding if they did not ban smoking at their facilities, Using the
{information that 1 received at our staff meeting the groups are urging the hosplta’s to fight this form of
‘lackmall. The groups themselves ave writing lowers and passing petitions to give to symapathetic hospital
administrators, One bonus to come from this heat Is the number Of nurses that have borome involves and
‘re worklng quictly on this issue,

stec 69205
