RY Repl cya

"Tobacco Company

gas.7a1-s000

11 February 1999 ‘Wancion-Salem, NC 27102

Ms, Jan Malcolm, Commissioner
MINNESOTA DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
Division of Family Health

85 East Seventh Place, Suite 400
St.Paul, Minnesota §510t

Re: Minnesota Tobaceo Substances Reporting.
eat Ms, Malcolm:

2n compliance with the Minnesota Statutes Section 461.17, subd, 1 (1997) “Manufacturers to Report on
Certain Substances” (“Reporting Act"), please find attached the annual tobacco substance report for
those brarids sold by RJ. Reynolds Tobacco Company ("RJR") in Minnesota,

‘The substances referenced in the Reporting Act (ie, ammonia or any compound of ammonia, arsenic,
cadmium, formaldehyde and lead) are commonly tecognized to be present in detectable levels in tobacco
and cigarcites in both the bumed and unburned states. In that regard, attached please find several
specific references (ram the scientific literature for each substance. RIR's responses in the attached
report are based on scientific literature references. Please note that the scientific literature relating tothe
substances referenced in the Reporting Act typically spans miore than forty years. Therefore, while the
list of references attached is representative, it should not be viewed as exhaustive.

Finally, by submitting the attached report, RJR does nol waive and specifically preserves all of its tegel
rights and remedies with respect to the purported reporting form issued by the Minnesota Department of
Health on or about October 19, 1998. RIR also incorporates by reference the Comments of Brown &
Williamson. Tobacco Corporation, Lorillard Tobacco Company, Philip Morris Incorporated, and Rl
Reynolds Tobacco Company on Minncsacta Department of Heaith “Tobacco Substances Reporting
Form" of Getober 19, 1998, which are dated January 8, 1959.

Please feel free to contact us directly if there are any questions conceming this submission.
Sincerely,
Michael A. McMenamin, JD. PD.
Senior Research & Development Toxicologist
Scientific & Regulatory Affairs
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
Attachments.
co: Ms. Janet Olstad

“We work for smokers.”

cave 1v6ts
