nxn OND
ba one
preweninet
ee ct

ation
peeve no

vetoner 22, 1003

nL E. Mean street
Aichwond, Virginie 22219

Oper fr. Tray:

thanx you foe your inquiry regarding my pereaptians on
tne concept of the Virginie Oepertasnt of Alconalac Seversge
ceeeeel (AECL atuuning primary responssnility far ieplementing the
proposed rules regarding ths gals and dietribution of venice
products to mindre under Section 1926 of the Public Heelen Service
see tne proposed rules apparently contaaplate thet states 121
sihet ta give tha reeponsiniiity For their enforcenent to state
qitehatie beverage commissions. The g¢aumption shat states vit
fo eo is 6 key Dlenent in His's & nt oF tne coat of ite
prapsces rules, aunga that HHS has no grasp af tha practical
implications of ite suggeerian.

AMG apparently nee in mind @ definite progeen for
anfoscing etate Laws prohibiting distripution of tobacco areducte
qoreinors. MWS expects that enforcement wil: involve 2ag-va0
sting” operations ‘apeinst s selacted sample af retetiore
fineluding vending fn each state. £8 Fas. Reg.
igisa, than “eEing= operations woul deed not only ta pranate
Tptailer compliance with the @iniaum sales-sge but an
Graject retailer compliance Levely statewide. 58 Fea, Reg. ¥S1S
orine prajected compliance levels are too low, HME nay revoue
Mee portion of a state's faderal substance-anuse funding, $0
fad. Reg. 45167.

HHS seeme ta embrace the state alconotic oevarage
ton os the madal For the groposed regulations on
noe in discussing new states can sinlaize the cast of
fiainioum s#les-89@ laws, HHS saya that “if & State
Chia system an Cop oF Sf elcahol licensing end
WAriecencat ayscam, {t would requirm @ starF of one or tra dozen
Stonie ana an annual Duaget of appcoxiaataly #1 miiiion. 1 58 Fed
cee atad, MHS aetimates tnat nationuide anforcesent oFFocrs
eee cost approximately #40 million, thus clearly assuming suct: »
piggyeecking, I am Convinced tnat HHS haa seriously
Gnoerestimeted the costs of its enforcement scheme

conml
nore
vafarcing th
ware te pigay

LELSNIZOe%
