Rez

To:

RIRT Interotfice Kemorandum

Analysis of Complaint Samples February 29, 1988

Or. J. 1. Dobbins From: Guy Spence

88-029: Brooks, WINSTON 100

Brooks claimed a suspicion that the cigarettes had been tainted -
perhaps tampered with. Microscopic analysis revealed no such evidence.
The sample consisted of two packs with two and Five cigarettes respec-
tively. Analysis of the exterior of the packs produced nothing an-
amatous. The whole cigarettes appeared normal. Each was split and the
blend examined microscopically. All cigarette blends appeared completely
normal,

88-030: Penner, WINSTON Lt. 100

Penner complained that something fel] from his cigarette and burned
his Jacket, ruining it. The sample consisted of a single 57-mm butt,
Analysis of the butt and blend revealed the presence of transparent
colorless to pale yellow crystal, both in the blend and stuck to the out-
side of the rod paper near the burn line. There were 4-6 crystals on the
paper and ca. 10-22 isolated from the blend. These were documented
through the microscope at 24x. Crystals from both locations were an-
alyzed by EDX and the spectrophotographs are attached. The major peaks
were C1, Ca, and K on both crystats, That from the blend had a major P
peak as'well. Minor elements were Wa, S, Si, and Al.

88-018: Clemons, VANTAGE

Clemons claimed that a wire was found in the VANTAGE cigarette. The
sample received and analyzed consisted of a single insulated wire, 44-mn
Tong and ca. 1 mm in diameter. The insulation was plastic and it had ,
been burned off one end, extending up a length of 23-mm, with the lastgof NS
these 23 millimeters being melted, dut not burned off. In the melted
insulation, I found uncharred tobacco particles entrapped, indicating
that the wire had most Tikety been burned in a burning cigarette rod. A
16X color photograph documented the tobacco particle-melted insulation
section, and it is attached for your fites.

88-016: Childress, HORE

The sample consisted of a single 90-mm Jong butt which Childress
claimed had exploded while in an ashtray, Microscopic analysis of the
butt and the extreme 15-mm Tength of blend produced no evidence that such
an incident occurred. The char line was evenly burned around the rod.
That evidence was documented on both sides of the slightly flattened butt

SLET £8808

