To: Distriputlon<OperdtingaCommittes Members, and ¥) Ti
Working Group Chairmen

These minutes FYI. 1% you have any need for attachments, please call.

YNTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM Kirst
To: Mr. F. H. Ghristopher, dr. Date: June 5, 1986
Dr. G. Re Di Mareo
Mr. R.A. Emken
Mr. M. L, Orlowsky
Subject: Product Quality Management = From: Jessie M. Rivers
Minutes of May 27 Leaf Program R&D

Steering Committee Meeting

‘The agenda of the meeting included proposals for action on composite case
packaging (Distribution) end establishment of a new working ‘group on
manufacturing practices (Processing & Manufacturing). Status reports were
given on action standards and product development {Product Positioning and
Development), leaf inventory policy, stemery performance, Maryland purchase,
G13-23 implementation, 70M2 plugwrap implementation (Leaf & Materials),
Product coding and product freshness (Distribution). .

Following is a summary of the discussion during the meeting. Attached
for reference are copies of the presentations given by the Operating Committee
chairmen.

DISTRIBUTION ~ PROPOSAL FOR ACTION

Composite Case Packaging. Efforts on product freshness delivery to
consumers have focused on product in the hot/dry and hotéwet regions. Product.
freshness can be impacted by use of the cold storage facility, COC inventory
policies, sales distribution policies and composite case use. Following the
POH Steering Committee rejection of a proposal to reduce the shelf-life policy
for products in these regions (March), direction was given to study ways to
enhance the shelf-life; e.g., packaging, beetle control, ete. After reviewing
Rab data on moisture loss effects on consumer perception and the protection
against moisture loss afforded by composite case packaging in warehouse and
simulated retail (Controlled Environment Study, El Paso Shipment Test), Harold
Threat presented the Distribution Operating Conmittee proposal prepared by
the Packaging Working Group to implement composite case packaging 28 soon 9s
Possible on major full flavor and ful] flavor low ‘tar’ (nonmenthol and
menthol} product (1% brands, 75% of RJR volume in those warehouses) shipped to
three key warehouses in the hot/dry region. The proposal did not include
ultra low ‘tar? product. Ih addition, the Applied R&D test plan for monitoring
two SALEM styles and two RITZ styles in the hot/wet, normal and hot/dry
regions by moisture, menthol migration and sensory tests was outlined.

Several other moisture tests in different categories and regions, including a
Seasona? check in the normal region were proposed as summarized in the
attachment. The approximate distribution of RJR business represented by the
4M brands in the bot/dry region was reported as 1.9%. Considerable discussion
was focused on the application of resources to address only this portion of

REC'D JUN 06 1986 Y.S.H.

azle eLsas
