. Inter -0f ice tamer andum .

Subject: Fropuned Verign Lor Cigarette Paper Bates 4-13-84
Propertivs Study

Yo: br. CLitt Banstiaia From: A.M. Merman

AU @ recom (3/28) raview vk prograxy on Une BRO prejoct, 1k was
Qectded Lo sercon w mumbur of puper and ciguretic variublus for poten
(hed applicability. Ten variables ware vuggostad. Thove cap be seroan-
0 WiUl @ "Hluckett-Hurman" design to delerminu relaLiva affects aL
the variables on responses of inlareyt. Thi exporimant wild nut re-
sult in 4 predictive model. Kathur, it will be used to determine hich
{af any? vardablos chosen affect maavured ruspunses on Clutuhod elgar-
otlus.
Tw Lun variables, with reusunuble levels ore Jivted bulow:

dewign Level
variable ' -

rod weightigt Let oF
cireunterence (um) 28 2b
porosity {CORESTA) 40 °
phosphate (MAP,%? 2 °
eltrale 1%) 2 6
Kae, serem (x) 2 °
THO 8) 2 °

2
Caco «x? »” °

4
Busia weight (9) 30 20
gd (x? 20 °

AtLached is the design Isyout with tho levels und variables shown
abova, Note that only 16 diztorent papary wre required. It should also
be noted that any of the levols in tho tuble bove can be chonged ws
raquized, av long av the high and low levely are ditterant and the
high and low Jovels are consistent Cor vach varisblu acrous tha deuign.
J sugguet wo lamudialely order the 16 papers required by tha da-
sign. Onca the papers are in, # suituble cigarette configuration can
be determined and mado. Regardievy of the cigarette construction, the
following moasurenents ehould be made un Lie cigurettes:

FIC ‘tur, 62, ete.
static burn rate {in wird

weetic burn rate (on # wurface, if pouvibiel
Sof sampla thet extinguish (in wir)

X of vanple thal extingulun fon a yurface!
sidestroum WIPH

sidestroan CO

temperature suncurements Inew Harrie apparatue)
heat flux awasuremants (Tommvend apparatus)
some muusure of machinubility (if pounible)
physical and chemical muscures on euch paper

Flease add any meawuros 2 have left out. TL any questions cume up, Jet
mo know.

Alan 8. Norwan

Less SmROs

oe: He. Paul Chapman .

