~

DEAR STOCKHOLDER:

1992 proved to be another successfil YOR for your company, inspite of some
snajor challenges we feced bot ssf ity and externally. Consumers and
icases around the world were faces th pressures brought sbout bY
Mtallenging environments. In the US che evonomy was faced with lingering
epession and record Tow CORSET So faence. intemationally, a combination of
Tocal and global factors slowed oF veversed growth trends in many Other developed
markets.

“These pressures brought about increased price pressure on Consumers and made an
important impact on their spending, behaviors, It became even more important,
vmrvefore, that we provide our consumes ‘with just the right products at superior
jevels of quality ‘and value in each ‘of our businesses: tobacco, food and beer. This
was not always an easy challenge. Significant mid-course changes in strategies
and plans wert necessary itt several businesses, and difficult resource: decisions.
and actions were faced and taken. But our efforts were rewarded. Our customers
ad consumers responded positively t0 5° solid new products and focused,
integrated marketing programs vas we overhauled our operations For speed, Sense
and efficiency is production we sreated savings which we could Pass ‘along fo our
consumers and our shareholders.

ur successes enabled us to continue 1 broaden our business with a series of
Sirategie eoquisitions and investments in high potential North American and
European markets. Our largest requisition, Freie Marabou, opened WP Scandinavia
ge a market for our strong European a vnfectionery business. Our actions Pu Us in
«ranger and better position to deliver profitable growth into the Future.

Having superior products is only possible with dedicated people tora O8F
businesses. All our employees PIBY @ vital role inthe wel being of this
corporation. Our employees conver Tremeclves wath honesty, integrity, and
concer for others a5 they take actions which move US closer and closer to our
mission of being the most successful consumer packaged goods company in the
world.

zosestez0z
