INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

July 30, 1990

0: Dr. Arnold T. Wosberg, Chairman of Animal Care and Use

Committee i

FROM: Dr. Paul H. Ayres, Way Director of TRD-ATS-030

SUBJECT: Protocol Amendment and Animal Requirements for TRD-ATS-

030

The first phase of TRD-ATS-030 has been completed using rats
leftover from the aborted malic acid study. Data collected during
‘this phase of the study indicate that submicron beads are too small
to be resolved accurately by the flow cytometer. A decision has
been made to use polystyrene latex particles of 1.85 microns

diameter, Preliminary studies with

1.85 micron beads indicate that

this size affords excellent collection of bead count data.
Preliminary data also indicate that the rat clears the inhaled

particles slowly over the course

of 7 days. After seeking and

gaining approval from my management to use mice in a preliminary
study of bead inhalation and clearance, I found that beads clear

much more rapidly fron the lungs

of mice than from rats. With

those data in hand, a decision has been wade te modify the protocol
to include mice in addition to rate.

The protocol lists several tissues which will be collected at

necropsy for bead count in tissues.
revise the tissue collection list

. A decision has been made to
to more accurately reflect the

clearance status of mid and lower respiratory tract only. The lung
sample will be defined as lung lobes separated from the maineten
bronchus. The mainstem bronchus and trachea will be collected as

a single sample. The larynx will
sample.

be collected as an individual

‘To complete this study, as per the attached protocol amendment, 150
nale Sprague-Dawley rats 150-200 gram body weight, will need to be
ordered. To add the mouse component to this study, 150 male CD-1
mice 6 weeks of age, will have to be ordered.

After approval by the animal Care and Use Committee, please request

the appropriate personnel to order
of this study.

xe: Dr. Chris Coggins
Ms. Jessica Young
Mr. Ronnie Talley

the required animals in support

S
&

