ar € at
eed,
Mr, J. C. Schroer Midian. G

Tuly 19, 1991
Page 3 pre the

han m, 1 Pr

Last week, Messrs, Blackmer and Parks visited the New York retail market and also
evaluated the Regional Initiative Program’s Cash and Carry promotional program, There
are approximately 5,000 Hispanic bodegas in New York (with less than 50 carton volume)
who buy their cigarettes daily from a Cash and Carry Operation. In this program, shipper
displays complete with cigarettes and premiums are displayed and personally sold to the
bodega owner by a member of the RIP field marketing executional team. During the 1,5
hour evaluation period, 16 displays or 64 cartons of CAMEL/SALEM were sold, with
virtually 100% being incremental volume/business. This is an excellent program that
enables us to penetrate the important lower volume Hispanic outlets relatively efficiently
and effectively.

© VANTAGE

‘The Brand met with the NASA AVP and Regional Managers to sustain a dialogue
responding to the Uliza Lights Box (Project RI) introduction. ‘The Business Unit and Sales
will work closely together the next several weeks in order to develop 2 term plan for the
intcoductory and sustaining retail promotions and trade program.

VANTAGE 20-ounce mug promotion was initiated July 1 in NCSA and SASA comprised
of 814,000 mug offers with a two-pack purchase. with $1 off two-pack coupon continvity.
Atlanta Loc-Leverage Market will utilize 5,100 SKUs of VANTAGE mugs to assist in
leveraging this promotion. ‘The second wave of mugs for MWSA, MCSA, PMSA, and
NASA will be implemented in drive period #6 with DTS August 19.

‘VANTAGE is also participating in SPP promotion in drive period #5 in SASA with a $1
off two-pack coupon with 50% allocation split with SALEM. SALEM also is promoting
in SPP with $1 off two-pack offer at the same time.

Opportunistically, Field Sales will be working an additional mug promotion in MWSA.
with a DTS of September 1. Two wholesale food shows will be the means of promoting
this program in the Sioux Falls Division and Omaha Chain Division. A totat of 60,000
mugs will be utilized with corresponding POS. Majority of mugs will be implemented
through the VAP program at wholesale level.

« NOW
Phase It Cambridge/Bristo! Defense Plan
NOW initiated Phase IT of the Cambridge/Bristol Defense Plan this week. The new

Cambridge/Bristol Lowest eniries directly threaten NOW’s “lowest tar” positioning and
offer the additional incentive of generic pricing. Key clements of the Phase If plan are:

Loca ee2es

