‘November 9, 1995

TO; Mr. B,C. Leary
Mr. PL. Sawin
Mr. M. W. Shaw

FROM: — RC, Pasterezyk

RE: w ita
(BIAD #95-11151)

Qualitative one-on-one interviews wore conducted Novermber 8 in Atlanta using Micromeasurement’s eye
‘movement technique. The objective ofthe research was to visually optimie all four WINSTON Natural
campaigns for POS impact, readability, and communication clarity. Respondents were 21-34 FP NM
FF/Lts 85/100mm smokers.

Each respondent saw first the campaign thematic in overhead display in a convenience store setting (ie., in
clutter) for 2 and 5 seconds, Then the same ad alone (a0 clutter) was exposed again for 2 ssconds and 5
seconds. After each timed exposure, respondents were asked to playback what they saw (copy/printing/
pictures) and ad main idea. After the final exposure, additional diagnostics were obtained including impact
‘on brand opinion and purchase intent, whether the ad suggested WINSTON had changed, user image, and
product expectations.

[Qualizative Research Caveat:

The findings from qualitative rescarch are neither definitive nor projectable and should be used for
dicectional guidance only, The findings should be considered hypotheses until subjected to quantification,

KEY LEARNING:

* Tho POS taste line dat should be used on all thematic and PDI-look pointofisale is “All taste, No
additives.”
= This isthe strongest claim and clearest communicator. Consumers see 100% tobacco" as a
statement about all cigarettes (hus, what's different about WINSTON), and the phrase “AIL
“Natural” suggests fasmn-grown (which all tobacco is)

+The Red/WhitefRed (R/W/R) icon presentod no downsides or negatives and overtime may become
powerful brand icon, Placement of t within sub-copy, rather than at the end/alone may help seed ite
importance/recognition earlier.

+ The “No B.S.” approach was the most impactfuVartention getting and elicited the quickest, most
consistent brand registration and headline playback. Additionally, the No B.S, ling immediately
communicated the strategic aninude of honest, straightforward, what you sec is what you get,

~ While the taste benefit did replay as a secondary point, we attempted to raise its importance
somewhat by enlarging the type fout of the sub-copy. This did not work. By shifting the
‘balance from primary/secondary to two primary messages, consumers” attention was diverted
to the point hat they read "NBS” instead of “No B.S.” and did not understand the ad

= There may be ways to better graphically link the secondary line to the primary, wit let to
right nomial eye movement or by separating the product taste line with te small (R/AW/R)
pack icon,

LPL 7667S

