INTER-CFFICE MENORANDOM RJReynolds Tebacce Company
eH Wanston-Saterm NC. 27102
ol un - RECEIVED

sector Soenivec tasers R JR AUG 1380,

SEW,

Crohn, Jr. August 15, 1980

RE: High Cholesterol = Heart Disease?
‘Low Cholesterol = Cancer?

“THE LINK BEIWEEN CHOLESTEROL AND CANCER
‘Editorial
‘Lancet TE (8188): 243-244, August 2, 1980

‘The ‘Lancet! editorial discusses the dilenm created by epidemic—
logical studies which, on the one hand, indicate high cholesterol
to be sssociated statistically with coronary heart disease, and,
oa the other hand, other studies which find low cholesterol to be
associated with cancer. The dilenma created by these findings is
dllustrated by the following quotation from that editorial:

"I€ there ie any likelihood that dietary change reduces the risk

of one common fatal condition, but increases the risk of another,
Antervention policies must be based on good data..s.s+sseesoe
There ie no obvious explanation for the ecatter of results.

MENORANDUIS

While the editorial has some perception of the difference between
statistical association and "causation", the writers are obviously not able
to fully resolve these problems. This is further complicated by the acknow
ledged data that there are many exceptions to the equation that high choles-
terol "causes" heart disease, and that there are also many exceptions to the
findings that low cholesterol is associated with cancer. The authors also
do not seem to want to consider that there is a rather wide discrepancy in
the allegedly high cholesterol associated number of deaths from heart disease
on the one hand, and the nurber ofdeaths allegedly associated with low choles~
teroal and cancer on the other hand, In my judgment, a likely explanation
may be that in both cases cholesterol level is a symptom rather than a cause
or even a risk factor. The same concept could bé applied to the associations
between smoking and various diseases.

Sane of the more noticeable coments in the/at! editorial have
been parked on the margin by arrowheads.
FOC/ks a.
Attia

over please

4802 $9908

