RR Interoffice Memorandum

Subject: Use of Rare Earths Date: April 10, 1987
(Lanthanides}
To: Dr. Jim ¥, Dobbins From: Or, Rob Harrington

In response to your request, Scientific Affairs has conducted a thorough
literature search of the toxicity of rare earths and their toxicological tm-
plications as “tracers” in blends. This evaluation focused specifically on
Yttrium (¥), Ytterbium (Yb) and Europium (Eu), although this toxicity inforn-
tion generally applies to the entire series of rare earths (RE).

RE generally have a low order of toxicity by the oral youte with LOsp
values (lethal dose to 50% of the population) of greater than 5 g/kg in rats.
The RE chlorides, nitrates and oxides are not well absorbed from the gastroin-
testinal tract (approximately 1%). The toxictty when administered in-
traperitoneally was much greater, with LDgg values ranging from 0.3 to 0.6 o/
kg (Haley, 1965). RE tend to form complexes with proteins causing a precip!-
tate to form. In one sertes of studies, rats consuming diets containing 0.01,
0.1 or 1% of a lanthanide for 12 weeks, showed only non-specific liver damage
at the 1% dose (Clayton et. al., 1981}. In another chronic study, C13 was
infected intraper{toneally for 5 months (dose not stated) and did not produce
adverse health effects (Bruce et. al., 1963).

Only one inhalation study concerning RE toxicity was found. In this
study, rats were given 50 mg ¥203 {ntratracheally. After 8 months, granuloma-
tous nodules consisting of crystalline deposits of the oxide with cellular
elements were present in the lung. This study alone 4s not very useful in
assessing the effects of a compound because of the very high dose concentra-
tions used and the mode of dose administration (e.g., rapid injection of Y203
deep into. the trachea). The oxides are also considered much more toxic than
the chloride form of RE (Israelson, 1963).

Based on this scant evidence, the American Conference of Governmenta
Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH) has set a threshold limit value (TL¥) of 1 mg/m
{present as ¥) for yttrium compounds. There are no specifle TLV’s for other
RE. This TL¥ is based on an average exposure to workers over the course of an
&-hour working day (ACGIH, 1986).

Based on the Jack of information on the inhalation of RE compounds,
Scientific Affairs recommends that additional information be obtained before a
final determination can be made regarding this project. A pilot study should
be conducted to determine both the content of the RE in the final tobacco
blend and the rate of transfer rate of RE from tobacco to smoke. This wil)
enable us to estimate exposure levels. These results would provide us with
the necessary information so that a more informed decis{on can be made.

T9ZL Leees
