ROR INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

TO: A.B. NORMAN

FROM: B.W. ARZONICO

SUBJECT: QUARTERLY REPORT: FIRST QUARTER 1990
DATE: APRIL 2, 1990
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine a method of analysis for carbon sheet content in
tobacco blends (and possibly 67-12).

Background:

Carbon contained at various levels in a tobacco matrix is
known to aid the burning of low porosity cigarette papers. This
carbon is included in the blend at various levels and in various
sheet formulations. The blends are prepared on a dry weight basis,
but due to the nature of the carbon sheets, the carbon/tobacco
ratios may change during the making and tipping processes.
Therefore, a quanitative method was necessary to deternine if and
at what point these ratios may change.

First Quarter progress:

An WIR method of analysis was identified as a possible method
for thie application. Discussions were held with Dr. Louis
Dominguez of PT&D and the outlook was favorable. Thirteen
calibration samples {15 g.each) were prepared using a 30/60/10
carbon sheet from 1989. The sheet was included in a standard
tobacco blend (CL 85) at 5% intervals ranging from 0% to 60%.

The resulting instrument curve seened very promising, however, PT&D
has requested 50 additional calibration samples using the entire
range of possible sheet types, and 20 unknown sanples as a check.
More discussions ensued, as the Product Design Division concluded
that the established curve was sufficient. As a result, PT&D has
offered assistance in the sample preparation.

Next Steps:

Different sheet types will be identified and the requested 50
calibration samples in the range of 0% to 65% sheat inclusion will
be supplied with the assistance of PT<D personnel. Using the
identified carbon sheets, 20 unknown "check" samples will be
prepared. PT&0 feels confident that this will esteblish a
satisfactory curve on the 0% to 60% sheet inclusion range.

When & satisfactory curve is established, the apparatus for
this analysis will be transferred to the Product Design Division in
a form that will be easily used. That is, with the internal
calibration and mathematical calculations on a software progran

6EET TETES
