Law OFFICES = pometen fo
SHOOK, HARDY& BACON LLP dismiss o@

organs tm. ve KANGA COTY PACE ‘gen
‘naan 2 goo Ma STREET Se
‘Scmuceee AEAR Crry usd OUFE 4106.28 are
is Te rcne: a18 07200 FARR HEAL ATOD ane
alg E Pracee
emo se
, eecergenbcen
April 28, 1999

Kelly C. Wooster, Esq.

BROBECK, PHLEGER & HARRISON LLP
Spear Street Tower

One Market

San Francisco, California 94105

Re: Thoms, ot al. and Owens Corning v. Rud. Reynolds Tobacco Con et
ai, (Jefferson County, Mississippl; Cause No. 96-0065)

Dear Kelly:

“Thank you forthe courtesy of extending the tobacco defendants a brief extension of
sion (onti] Apri 30) to reapond t0 your April 13, 1999 letter. Defeodanis have carefully reviewed
Jour leer regarding responses to document production oquests served by Owens Corning. Tn this
regard, while Defendants are prepared ta address the positions asserted in yous letter, we do not
beleve that this is the appropriale time to do s0. As you know, in response to your document
production requets, Defendants previously objected io any discovery going forward between Ovens

Coming and the tobacco defendants, because ths tobacco defendants nad previously filed a motion

for protective order requeting tht same relief. We adhere to this postion, Defendanis stated in

thee motion, and contiaue to believe, that the amount of time, effort and expeuse necessary 10

respond to discovery (coming from citer side) will have been wasted inthe event Owens Coming’s

claims are dismissed in whole or in part

Defendants previously noticed their motion for protective order for a hearing on
Jaquary 15, 1999. That hearing was canceled by the Coun and the Cour! set the agenda forthe next
hearing (on February 5), and decided to exclode the tobseco defendant’ motion from the agenda
“At the February 5 hearing, the tobacco companies’ motion ta appoint 2 Special Master was argued.
‘The same motion was argued again on April 19 and the Court sted that he would appoint a Specisl
‘Master in order lo assist him in handling discovery and other mstters. During this time period, the
parties have been extremely isy and an immense amount of discovery has occurred. The
Fepositions of all 17 plaintiffs bave now been completed, a the rate of nearly one deposition cech
day for over five weeks.

aga

prcgezZLoz
