GSR,
f yo Reyna Interoffice Memorandum
"Fan CTF

Scientific & Regulatory Affairs

‘April 24, 1995

‘Subject: Tip Report: Tobacco Manufacturet’s Da
Association (TMA) and UK Updated
‘Guidelines on Approval and Use of
Additives
To: Distribution From: D. Cooper Rees

“This report provides an overview of the most sevent meeting at the TMA held April 11. Other
companies in attendance included PM, BAT, Rothmans, Gallaher, and imperial. The purpose
of the meeting was to discuss TMA’s response to the Dept of Health's most recent draft
guidelines on the approval and use of additives, Please note thatthe present memo is
follow-up to a recent memo written by Bob Suber and myself dated April 7. The previous
letter provided a detailed review of our initial meeting with the Dept. of Health and selected
TMA momibers.

‘Although RIR's market share is minimal, there is good reason to pay attention to additive
regulations in the UK. UK guidelines for the use end approval of additives could become the
standard for the European Union. Within one year after the UK banned snuff, it was also
banned throughout most of the other BU counties,

OVERVIEW OF THE MEETING AND ACTION STEPS

‘As the TMA meeting began, Gallaher was clearly in control, Essentially, Gallaher’s approach
‘was designed to maintain the old Froggatt committee's approach, Mr. David Hare, Executive
Birector of Trade Affairs for TMA, was clearly supponing Galleher's position, After
considerable discussion/debate, amos participants recognized that the recent developments in
the Depl. of Health (see previous memo dated April 7) demanded & “fresh” approach by the
industry. RIR, PM and BAT were very niuch in agreement. Minor support catne from
Rothmans and Imperial, The Gallaher representative, Andrew Nelms, and David Ware
became increasingly silent as the merits of'a different approach became apparent. David
Swan, Chie? Executive of TMA, joined the meeting while iu progress. Mr. Swan appearcil t0
tbo more open to a different approsch than did David Ware.

ACTION STEPS

‘The following action steps were agreed upon

bose pects
