PREENCLION os

SOMES TION.
EARCH
Fi

SUS TiGInY On, MONMOUTH JUNCTION, NEW JERSEY 08852 TELEPHONE: (609) 482-9200

February 17, 1984
PCRL-L-8 4-096

Mr. Edward A. Rorrigan, Jr.
Chairman of the Board of Directors
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.

401 North Main Street

Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27302

ieee eore way

I have watched your versonal efforts on television and in
newspapers to blunt the. ant in i-smoking campaign in the United
States, and 1 apples Sur ef for However, as long as the
industry maxon endo apron ors Pe0ue Sadueriueenernegseae |
Eee with ‘smoking, thg-aati-smokihg Eorées* Will not Let up.
hh tial eicnt, L-wish you good luck in your efforts, but Hee
i111) notsycceed

ou

The argument that the hazard to health has not been proved
on humans {$ not persuasive enough, The putts has heard it and
romains skeptical, What the py er EHSAN,
cee et cee crag can Ei ANA el Selene ery
haza‘ fo That is one statement é they have not heard.

The industry has taken a negative attitude until now toward
technical efforts ta produce a less harmful cigarette, Of
course, there are low tar and ultra low tar cigarettes, which
work by air dilution and by filtering, but as you know, these
design changes do not satisfy the smoker and have little impact
on the market, As a result, the industry cannot claim to have
solved the problem, and the anti-smoking forces tend to ignore
such cigarettes. From their point of view, most smokers use full
tar cigarettes and, they argue, create full scale hazards. why
doesn’t the industry attempt to develop a less harmful cigarette?
Success in that direction would shift the entire battle and give
you and the tobacco industry a whole new set of arguments,

Back in 1968, the Surgeon General called together a
Workshop, the {irst of a series, on the topic, Toward a Less
Rarmful Cigarette. His stated purpose, in the introduction, was
to stop debating the degree of hazard and start reducing or
eliminating the hazard (his very words). That was a good

heginning, Unfortunately, that first conference, ae
the last, Imptbersarlyz)970-s nd Paes Cs

(Continued 2. 4)

be

£959 ezzas
