HELD. axp KNOWETON, Ive
Confidentiel for Members FR No. 10-65
INPORNATONAT. MEMORANDUM april 2, 1965

Subject: Washington Hearings

Hearings on proposed cigarette labeling legiclatton before the U.S. Senate
Committee on Coumerce concluded Friday with further testimony before the Committee
dy several doctors and scientists, including Dr. C. C. little, scfentific director,
and Dr. Robert C. Hockett, associate scientific director, of The Council for Tobacco
Research--U,S.A.

In addition, statenents from 14 other doctors, el) expressing reservations sbout
‘the Surgeon General's report on stoking, were filea with the Camttee for the
record end were nade available to the public and press.

Also filed was a statement setting forth the position of The Tobacco Institute, Inc.
by George V. Allen, president. (Full text enclosed.)

Fearings on similar legislation are scheduled to begin Tuesday, April 6, before the
Fouse Committee on Interstate and Forelgn Commerce, Rep, Oren Harris (D.-Ark.),
chairman, The present schedule calle for the Comittee to hear Paul Rend Dixon,
FIC chairman, on April 6; Surgeon General ferry, April 7; Euerson Foote and others
on Tnuredey, April 6.

Press coverage of testimony by witnesses was somewhat less extensive in the second
and final week of hearings held by the Senate Commerce Comittee. United Press
International and Associated Press carried stories each day, but @ preliminary
survey of major cities indicates fewer nevepapers were printing long stories.

Statements by physiclens and selentists raising questions about the charges made
against smoking were highlighted in several stories moved during the veek by UPI.
For example, on April 1, UFI's first peregreph read: "Four more nedical, specialists
today disputed findings of 8 1964 Public Health Service report linking cigarette
smoking to lung cancer and heart diseases.”

‘The story then went on to quote Drs. Duane Carr, Douglas H. Sprunt, Joseph B, Wolffe
and William H. Carnes, Algo quoted in the atory were Dr. George L. Saiger and
Dervell Huff.

HO1L and Knowlton, Inc.
Pubite Relations Counsel
150 East bend Street
New York, N.Y. 10017

ce: Meubere
Public Relations Representatives
Legal Representatives

214 esos

