RIR Interoffice Memorandum .

SUBJECT: Focus Groups DATE: July 11, 1988

W. M. Dufour FROM: M. F. Dube

“THE THINGS I LEARNED”

Project
When: June 27 - June 29, 1988
Where: Plaza Research, Dallas, Texas

Moderator! Marcia Wolly

Groups: 18 - 24 Female

.F

From an aroma point of view, the entire TF proposition looks strong. Two or
chree campaigns, developed by the agency, clearly communicate the aroma con-
cept to consumers. Consumers truly Like the proposition and play back the
‘penefits (personal hygiene, social acceptability) without prompting. The use
of Scratch 'n Sniff as a communication vehicle on print media is fun, excit~
ing, appealing and understandable to consumers. Although the aroma provided
by the SNS does not exactly duplicate the products’ aroma, consumers agree
that ic accurately represents the delivery of the product. Tha TF product
delivers a pleasant, perceivable vanillin aroma vhich consumers ¢ruly Like.
They see che benefits clearly and many of theu indicate they'd switch. The
package and aame Chelsea are consistent wich the intended target and the
Product, Overall, the product, packaging and advertising are consistent and
seem to provide a strong proposition for @ new product entry.

The use of che spearmint pellet, however, has to be questioned. Disclosure of
the new aftertaste to consumers does not appear in out-of-home and is buried
in the copy in the print vehicles. Most consumers are not aware of the
different taste until product trial. Although many indicate chat it’s
pleasant, very few consumers would adopt the brand, except in occasional use
settings. The sftertaste delivery interferes with their taste perceptions and
this is most certainly an Achilles Heel. The spearmint is clearly identt-
fiable as mint, even to menthol suckers. Either the delivery must be toned
down (lower levels of spearmint) or the advertising must communicate after-
taste for this to be a well-received product.

It wakes me wonder whether or not we have two entirely different products.
Tha aroma product, from a total proposition viewpoint, seems to be strong and
ready for introduction. The use of aftertaste modifiers, in its present form,
needs further work from both the R&D and Marketing sides. Tt appeats that the
use of aftertaste in the TF product may diminish its acceptance among con-
sumers, at least es presently executed.

esss Spsos
