fouacco Rrskarcu-U.8.A., Inc.
00 THIRD AVENUE é
NEW YORK, N.Y, 10028

Tue Counc For

ROBERT F, GERTENIACH

October 9, 1986

David M, Stern, M.D,
‘Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation
‘Thrombosis/Hematology Research Program
825 NE [3th St.

‘Oklahoma City, OK 73104

Dear De. Stern:

‘The Council for Tobacco Research, USA, Inc. is pleased to offer you a new grant in the
amount of $75,000.00 for the period from January 1, 1987 to December 31, 1987 for the study
proposed in your application dated May 22, 1986. It is understood that this grant is made
subject to acceptance by institutional authorities as heretofore, We recognize that this
appropriation is somewhat less chan you requested, but hope it will suffice to maintain your
sludy at a productive level. If you wish to accept it, please notify us accordingly and submit a
sevised budget to show how the available Funds will be distributed. A new budget sheet is
enclosed for this purpose,

‘The award is made without guarantee of support beyond December 31, 1987, even
though we recognize that your application proposes a study extending beyond that date.
Therefore, if by May 31, 1987 you submit to us a formal renewal application, including 2
Teport of your progress to date, your request will receive consideration in competition for
available funds.

Your attention is called to the enclosed "Important Procedura? Information for
Grantees", Please fill in the attached "Notice of Research Project” and return it to me. Drs.
‘Vincent Lisanti, Associate Research Director, end Harmon McAllister, Research Dizector, will
serve as your primary contact with our scientific staff on matters concerning your grant.
Please consult them as questions ar problems arise, and Keep us informed about the progress of
your study.

As Principal tnvestigator, you should know that CTR recovers unexpended balances at
the end of each grant year. We suggest that you personally keep aa accurate record of
expenditures and commitments to assure that you agree with your institution’s official financial
statement at the end of the grant year. Please note that year-end deficite cannot be recovered
from CTR, even from funds awarded in a subsequent year. Finally, please be aware that our
failure to receive timely annual financial statements from your grants office will stop Further
grant payments. Appropriate forms will be sent to your financial officer at the end of the
grant year. Administrative problems are relatively rare and we hope that this statement of our
fiscal policies will obviate any possible misunderstandings.

Cordially,

(CO) Jeti

Robert F. Gertenbach
Enels.
cc: William G. Thorman, M.D.
RFGimjs dee: Auditor, LP, RO'K, Mondor, DC, MIS, Fite

