Ros

PELL PARK MEMORIAL INSTITUTE

Novenber 25, 1986

- Federal Seade Comission — -
+. Washington, Ds ©, 20580

Geatlonen:

Roswell Perk Memorial Institute vas founded in 1898.and is therefore the
oldest Institute in the vorlé devoted solcly to the preventiva and cure of
malignant disease. The Institute is supported primarily by the State of
New Yor% and is a branch of the Department of lcelth of the State of New
York, Health Research, Inc., a non-profit corporation affiliated with the +
State Health Department, administers grants in 2ié for work conducted at
Roswell Tack Nenorial Institute. ‘These grants are provided by @ nunber of
sources but the majority of funds thus administered are derived from grants
and contracts provided by United States governnent agencies.

Merbers of the staff of Roswell Park Memorial Institute have taken an
active interest in the relationship between smoking and lung cancer since
1950. Indeed, one of the earliest reports of the association betueen smok-
ing and cancer vas made from Rosvell Park Memorial Institute in chat year.
Since then, a program to explore the relationship hetween snaking and lung
cancer has heen under way at Roswell Park Memorial Institute. During the
years this progran has broadened fron these early attempts to determine
Whether a ‘casual relationship existed, to recent studies of the mechanism
by which cigarette smoke causes cancer and ways in whieh the exposure of
individuals to cigarette smoke carcinogens might be reduced.

the undersigned are mexbers of the professional staff of Roswell Park
Mesorial Institute who are closely associated with this progras. A complete
eurriculun vitae for each of the undersigned is appended to this report.
The special competetence of the undersigned in areas related to cigerette
testing and Co reporting of test results is as follows:
George E. Moore, wi. D., Th. De, is the Director of Roswell Park
Memorial Institute and bas conducted experimental
investigations of tobacco carcinogenesis since 1950,
Fred G. Bock, Ph. D., is the Head of the Orchard Park Laboratories
of Roswell Park Yeworial Institute and has beén
engaged in experimental studies of tobacco careino-
fe) geacsis since 1950,
Iewin D. J. Bross, Ph. D., is the Director of the Departrent of
Statistics and Acting Chief of the Departnent of
Epidenfology at Roswell Park Nesorial Institute and
has been engaged in studies of smoking end disease
sinee 1952.
Charles 4. Ross, H. Di, is the Chief of Tacreete Surgery of Fo

AL

Park Herorial Institute end Director of the Smoking

zoze ieeos

