0 ee eeEe_O_
RECD MAR 221989 TLR

RJR INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM
PRODUCT & APPLIED TECHNOLOGY R&Q - CIGARETTE TECHNOLOGY DIVISION
March 20, 1989
TO: Distribution

FROM: G.E, Creamer
Process Science/ Tobacco Technology Group

TZ1S 00z0S

SUBJECT: Results of Concentric Core Cigarette Test

The purpose of this test was to determine the effect of a concentric
core tobacco rod upon sidestream (s8) cigarette smoke condensate (CSC).
Reduced mainstream (MS) and SS CS¢s have been achieved in our lab by
substituting a G7 analogue for tobacco cut filler on an equal weight
basis. Prior evidence from experiments in which cigarettes were
treated with radio-labelled nicotine suggested that the nicotine con-
tent of the MS CSC coul’ be influenced by the geometrical positioning
of the nicotine in the sb: 120 rod. It was hypothesized that by using
the G7 analogue (which consisted of 50% CaSO4 and no extract) in a con-
centric core rod design, the SS CSC would be reduced more than expected
from a mass balance consideration.

Kirber AG (Hamburg, FRD) had a prototype maker which they clained
could make concentric core rods and were willing to conduct a test with
us. A test design was prepared using two concentric core configu-
rations- one with the G7 analogue placed in the center (CORE) and a
second with the G7 analogue placed in the periphery (ANNULUS) and
around a tobacco core. Controls of these designs were also to be pre-
pared in which the G7 analogue was blended (MIXED) with the tobacco cut
filler (CAMEL Filter Export) in the corresponding percentages. As a
Precaution in case the G7 analogue would not process through the ciga-
rette maker, two additional parts were added to the test. ‘They
invelved replacing the G7 analogue with G13 and oriental blend.

The G7? anlogue was prepared on the G7 pilot line and reduced to
cut filler on the R&D primary processing line in November 1968. The
concentric core cigarettes were all manufactured in December. ‘The
control cigarettes were manufactured at the RJR GmbH facility in Trier
during December. In order to reduce the test size, the test part with
control cigarettes made with oriental blend was cancelled.

Upon inspection and conferring with the Kérber staff, it was learned
that the concentric core rods were not ideal because the central core
was not aligned along the horizontal axis of the rod, i.e., it was off-
center. Consequently, an imperfect test was conducted. Still, it was
believed that there was adequate partitioning of the blend components
and that some meaningful results might be obtained from the analyses.
The diameter of the core section was 4 mm. This meant that the core
section was roughly 25% of the volume of the tobacco rod.

Upon receipt of the cigarettes at the Bowman Gray Technical Center,
they were physically characterized and analyzed for total blend nico-
tine and pack moisture. To determine the percentage of G7 analogue in
the prototypes, the rod blends were hand picked. Statistics of the
data are included in the attached tables. The smoke components (both
