‘Tur Counern For Tosacco Restarcu-U.8.A., Inc,
100 EASY 692m STREET
MEW YORX, X.Y, 10022

May 7, 2979
Re: Grant #n6R2

Thomas P. Stossel, M.D.
Chief, Medical Oncology Unit
Wassachusetts General Hospitel
Fruit Street

Boston, MA OZ1ih

Dear Doctor Stossel:

‘he Council for Tobacco Research-U,5.A., Inc, 12 pleased to award you a
second reuewal. grant in the amount of $43,528 for the period from July 1, 1979
sereugh, June 30, 3980 for the study proposed in your application dated Decenber
12, 1978.

It is understood that thie grant is mde subject to acceptance by the
institutional authorities, as heretofore,

Since it concludes the three years originally programmed for this etudy,
St is considered formally terminal for the project, and a comprehensive final report
will be expected at your convenience efter its termination, sa well aa reprints of
any peyers resulting from the grant thereafter,

New proposals may be acceptable at the instigation of the applicant, for
consideration de novo in competition for evaileble funds in the Light of program
status and priorities at the time of submission. If you plan to submit such propo-
sals, please send informal outlines of the projects you have in mind, as early as
possible, so thst our program planning group can advise you whether formal applica-
tion can he recommended. These may be handled through your CIR steff contact,

Your attention is particularly celled to the enclosed “Important Proce-
dure2. Infornatioa for applicants and Grantees",

Dr. David Stone, Associate Research Director, will continue to represent
our scientific’ staff as prinary contact with your grant. He vill be the person to
consult about any questions or problems thet may arise, and should be kept informed
about the progrese of the study.

‘The Council is pleased to Join with you in support of your study. Please
fil] in the attached "Notice of Research Project” of the Science Information Exchange
and retura it to me,

Sincerely,

ed Koay

W. T. Hoyt
‘WOH/ego Executive Vice President
Encla.

ee: Ronald W, Lanont-Havers, M.D,
BCC: AUDITOR, EK, RO'K, MONITOR, Dc

50125975
