i.

Asfiendment of TIOJ Standard Method for Tar and Nicotine Determination Page 1 of 2

Crumpler, Linda
From: Gericke, Marianne

a Sent: Friday, October 20, 2000 7:18 AM.
To: 'TIOJ Testing Laboratory’
‘Subject: Amendment of TIOJ Standard Mathod for Tar and Nicatine Determinat ion

Dear Dr. Muramatsu,

Attached please find the Draft Amendment of TIOJ Standard Method for the Determination of Tar and
‘Nicotine in Mainstream Smoke of Cigarettes,

‘As you can see, i have made some minor corrections. These corrections (highlighted in blue) are partly
editorial, but on the other hand a stricter adaption to the curzent ISO standards.

This, of course, up to you to accept these corrections or not.
In addition, T have some questions/points which are not clear to me:

1, Tolerances for Verification of Tar and Nicotine
a) The current TIOJ Procedure for TIO) Verification of Tar and Nicotine (1993) says

‘The verification values shoutd be within +, 20% of the values printed on the package (Minimum
tolerance of + Img for Tar and_z 0.1mg for Nfcotie),

b) 180 8243 allows a tolerance of

© + 15% for sampling over a periad of time rsp.
© + 20% for sampling at one point in time

(tinimumn tolerance of + Img for Tar and + 0.1 mg for Nicotine).

©) As according to the TIOJ Procedure, sampling and analysis is done 6 times per year and the yearly
average value is decisive for the verification of TAN pack imprints, the deviation of these yearly
average values should be max, + 15% from the TIN imprints (minimum tolerance of + Img for Tar and_
£0.1 mg for Nicotine),

4) Official European Laboratories (UK, France, Germany) are operating accordingly.

Verification Procedure after
a) According to TION Verification Procedure all brand are stmmpled from the Japanese Market

Le. product age, production date, ete. is not known to TIOJ.
b) “According to the available time schedule, all brands will be analysed according to revised TIOJ

standard method as of May 01, 2001.

Ley overs

©) This will lead tothe situation that samples will be available to TIOJ with TVN pack imprints according to

11700

h
q

