4. Chase Hymor
‘oooart Manager

1346 E Faiview Ave, Suite A
Median ID 3642
298) 898.3502 FAX OOH) 688-2061

Tone 27, 1996
TO: RM. Allen D.L. Lawson,

MT. Amaya HLA Norris

CA, Babyak LE Riley ‘

JL, Bryant D, J. Suong

D, M, Cook ME. Storm,

HJ. Henitz 8. Uribe

CS. Hu

RE: Albertson's Contracts

Deat Ladies and Gentlemen:

Effective 31d Quanter 1996 we will be converting to a more simnpificd contract designation system to reflec Une various
‘Albertson's contracts. Currenly we have various ways to reflect whal contracts are n each store. If siore changes one of
lhcir merchandising componenis we would have lo end contracts and add others. To further complicate the isue i has
come to out atention thal soine ofthe Retail Reps have become confused with ihe current designations, There is very litle
Aiterences between the current designations, bu the requirements vary realy. Some of the Retail Reps have sued non
‘compliance for eats that do ot place the contract in tha position.

“There will be four contracts that could appear in ao Albertson's store depending on whal pieces are in place. These
contracts are:

“Type Pion. Rate | Descripion Requirements

CTNOUTLET | NSLIE |S 242 _| Sundard Carton Contract ‘SS or NSS RIR Carton Fixture wi
Canopy and NSS Package Display

CTNOUTEET | PRALB [$207 | Self Service Package Contact | SS Package Fisture (various option
swailable)

CINOUTEET | ALBERT | $ 124 _| Savings Enhancement Program | SS Savings Cenier and Divisional
Share of Savings Objective

CINACMAT [LE $324 | Retail Accrual Contract ‘Maintain the CTN OUTLET
NSL3E

fa store has a specific merchandising piece they will also have a specific contract. The Retail Reps will no longer have to
refer back to a sheet to figure out if store is compliant or nok IF Uney bave the picce they have the contrac, ifthe pio is
gone 50 goes the contract,

Hlopefblly these changes will simplify the contract compliance issues in che stores. Eknow it will make Ginger and my life a
litle easier when i comes to pay register time. Winston-Salem did have sorte concern thal il appears we have developed a
“component” contract system. [ have assured them that we are aill implementing and presealing the contract lo Albertson's
the way they signed-off on it (NSL2E and NSL3E). This is being used to simplify te process internally. Thanks to Monoe
‘Anaya forthe idea, thanks fo Rich Pettorini forgetting it in the systera,

Ee<s Loets
