4705/98 19:14 ‘ERP THE CUANKE->TORACLO UNSTITWTE PAC/Ralph Visovick oat

RECEIVED

APR 6 tz

Charen ayer Congress
rat

FEDERAL savor eet

reas bape. fone

Monsiay April 6° Urgent pciate

Deer Friaed,

('m aura you've read the news thet the Coun have sgain invalidated out North
‘Carolina Congressional Districts, Again, the good people of North Carolina dont knew for
‘Sure who wil represent them, who they’l be volng for in the May Pritmry, of whether there
‘wl be a ey Primary for Congress.

I want you ts know thal nagerchass of what tha Courts, the Ganeral Assembly and the
usioe Depertmenl do, | 2mm going nontiue lo work herd 1a represent the people ofthe
‘urrent 1th Dieta, and will ight to Weep our woetern counties tagethor in any new plan.

opposed this moat recent inweull becavee snauait ie enowah) It's nigh time
the politicians ~ whether they era Repubtcare or Democrats - atop pelecting voters:
‘arvd alow the voles to select mnem.

(Ot eourne, my opponent ia continurng hia campaign and hos recently wack out 3 PAC.
lt which - wee oleiming hell run @ positive rane — fs replete with personel atlacks cn ra.
He claire to have raised over $125,000 spd ae the only elected officia! bo oppose me since
my ict stection-—he hue an ateotorel base which my pervious opponents leokod. And, with
‘What appara to be an increasingly competitive Senate conteat, {know the North Car
lemocrale 68 do everything they can to push up Demoeral woler tuinout in the western
portion of the xia,

‘As one who supported «ny oampergem in the past, | would ike fo invile you to a
$31,000 pe pernon fundeaiaing breskfest on Wadamatiay, Apri 24, af tha HFA
Conterence Room, 410 First Street, SE (above Busfeathers) st 8:30 in the morning,
‘Yout participalon in Iie pro-Primary event wil wend. & clear nigral to the rest ol no HAC
eartrmunity,

| ans taleg thia race wary seriously — ax | have said belore In ey dacs, even if you
un unoppoeed i's usually loo clove Io cal!

{knew can count en your help a4 we move forward in thie campaign - cegardlans of
Ine fal ma

‘Sircarely,

Charian Teor
PS Pranua call 202-546.9560 to HSVF to the Weonesdsy Apri 29" Hreakiaat!
‘Thank you. Don't forget to designate your contributton for the 88 Primary.

WIE LACS a ance
2441952 50D

TI1698-0599
