DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
OFMCE OF THE SECRETARY
+ WASHINGTON, B.C. s0280

April ¢ ¢ 1968
Hr, W, B. Jenkins
President.
Nocth Carolina Yarn
Bureau Federation
P.O, Box 27766 “
Raleigh, North Carolina 27621

Dear Mr. Jenkins:

Thank you for your letter in which you provided recomendations made by
Subcomittess of an ad hoc Tobacco Industry Geoup with respect to the vse
Of pesticides on tobacco,

Several of the cecomendations of the subcamittees will require action or
Cooperation of the Department of Agriculture (USDA) for implenentation,
USDA's response follows with respect to these recommendations:

1) Field Inspection Qommittee cecomendations. ‘the Agricultural
Stabhiteation and Conservation Service (ASCS) will:
A Continue to furnish the State Departments of Agriculture with
selected samples of tobacco.

B Gooperate in making samples of tested tobacco that are in the
Possession of any USDA agency available to publicly-omed
laboratories for the pucpose of making validity tests of any

. chemical analyses. .

© Requice producers to provide a report to their local ASCS offices
(1) when hacvest has been completed on 50 percent ox more af the
flue-cured tobacco acreage on thelr farms and (2) of the percent of
the facn's acceage of flue-cured tobacco that has been harvested at
the tine such report ig mate, At the time the cepoct is received,
oc shortly thereafter, the farmer will be advised as to whether the
tobacco stalks must remain standing foc up to 14 days in the field
for which harvest has been completet. ASCS will perform candom
Spot~checks of the standing stelke on selected farms. ‘The fares to
be spot-checked will be selected on the basis of the reports made
by the producers, i.e., the faces will not be preselected.
Ddditionally, the farma on which harvest has not been completed at
the tine of the ceport will be subject to random checks of the
tobacco in the fields for which harvest has not been completed.

9SLETTLOO%

2) Tolerance Committee recommendation. ‘The Tobacco Division,

agricultural Marketing Service, ia analyzing avatlable data with cespect to
the use of dicamba and in the future a decision wilt be made as to
whether to seek public conment with respect to anending the regulations
which set forth the tolerance level which ls applicable to this pesticide,
