‘The overall one-molecuie position is often summarized
by the statemeat, “Itt impossible lo seta vafe level of
ital (or any substuece that
animal of man.” (2, 3)

‘The "threshold-lovel” hypcthesle

{mn opposition 1o the “one:molecule™ view of
carcinogenesis are the proponents of the “threshold”
Srpatheis. They have been helpful in dicerning and
‘tating the oppasing “one-molecule” procepts. Here are
the basic tenets ofthis choot oF thought:

|, Animal defense systems include detoxifying
‘mechanisms that dlspose ofa variety of “stranget
chemical composiions ie. chemical encommon tothe
normal digestive and vespiraiory processes. (4-6)

2. These detoxifying processes have capacity
{imitations so that they cupe adeyuutely with modest
levels of “ttrange cheenicals,” but mussive dotes overload
them. When overload ovcurs. secondary coping
-mechanismas may corte into play to continue
<derasification and disposal. There may also be an increase
(of the retention level of the “stranger,” ar its metabolites
in the body as the imake level increates. Eventually higher
donage levels can overwhelm alf systems and toaie effect.
including carcinogenesis, may occur. (4-6)

3. Animal systems have “repair mechanisms” that
reverse the initiation reaction of the intruding chemeeal
“stranger” or its onetabolite. These repair mechaniaema can
also be ovesloaded. I the extent of damage (ini
‘exctions} is great, the repair time may be longet. Ia
fgireme cases the iepar stem cin be oversee the

larnage becomes lrveversiole, and malignant lesions ay
appear. (6)

4. Differences in metabolism among different snicnal
Families, genera and species are frequently encountered
‘Aalyet there is no egrtatn way lo predict that any Sivee
chemical “stranger” will be metabolized und/ar secreied
in the same way by rodents, caroivora, and primates. The
rh imal species, genera and familie
with respect to cleetrodyie balances, setention and
elimination of metabolites are likewite considerable and
‘may prodyce substantial differences in renetions 10
‘chemical “strangers,” particularly in massive dotes. (1.61

5, Animal tests si moderate and low dasuge loveln ure

6. Animal tests in families apd genera closely
man—ic.,.primales—are most likely (0 ienicale how
humans will react,

7. Human epidemiological information should ulwnys
fhave precedence aver animal tests (uswimting, of cutee.
that the epidemiology i baced on valid methods of.
abu

93 possible to establish a finite, “no
<ffeet” level of intake for 4 chemical suspected 3
carcinogen (possible exception may be wertuin direct
alkylating agents) (4.8.4

{ have fixe problem in trying to edupK the “one-
molecule” view of caruinngenet:

@ the contusion between cortehathy
seems to prevail in much of the unin

© the Smal

so wvully close to era boggles my mind as J Ary to
‘brasp it asa ceal catative agents

© the problems in extrapolation of data. as I peresive
them, eruin my credibility:

‘© ‘my ultempls (o apply this “one-molecue™ consept to
«8 rosl cuse —the long-time, steady user of snccharin:

‘© oy attempts to visualize how I can assure even
paell {to say nothing of a skeptic) that 1 ean devi
kind of experiment chat is free ftom extramcous
vonlamination by other “encontralled™ molecules, Let's
(ook at euch of these briefly.

(is. well-known fallacy of logie (9 attribute causation
twa situation in which only correlation is entailed. To my
smiind much of the animal test work i at, or close 10, this
Pitfall (9). A cormmen cure Tor this fallacy is 49 postulate
‘mechanram that seeks to eaptain the phenomenon under
‘onsideration und to devise experiments ta test the model:
ic.,toity tocestabliah ¢ causative mechanism rel
the observed results and 10 “prove” that the re
causative. Beyond thin | have dificulty ewallawing
Statements such as have beea made repeatedly by Ihe
Food and Drug Administration (FDA). and ave now
Feyuited in saccharin Inbeling, 10 the effect that,

saccharin hus been shown to cause cancer in animals,
‘Now this requirement begs the yuestion, “What do you
accept as proof?” The FOA reference in its proposed ban
‘on saccharin ceferred ta the Canadian Health Protection
Branch tests. the basis for the “has been shown”
statement. But these lests have been challenged on several
‘ataunds (lack of dose-response data, upaets in clectralyle
bafance In the renal system of the rats. questions of
tranuplacental iransfer und in ulera dome levels ete. In
fact, the tests were not designed to elicit dus on eaecharin
pet sc. bul rather on u-tolvene sulfonamide. With $a many
Lunresctved questions the shepsical observer must reserve
Judgment, 1 is thus anly the trur Geligeer in the “one
‘mofecula™” hypothesis whg can say, "It Ru boon shown
‘When 1 contemplate the concentration of ceactant that
lone molecule represents, | find alitost nothing—ree0,
‘Tasharpen this poiat fe'sfook al how many molecules are
Jnvolved inthe smatleat amounts of 3 chemical we cae
detect with our newext nd most sophintiested
{nsteumem the GC-mavy spectrogeaph systems. Some of
the mors readily ident lfied urganie molecules nre detected
in amounts ox small as une picogearn, ic. 10" gram.
‘Though wiccharin may not be detoctuble at this level. let's
assuime for the moitient that Rf. is soliein salt,
ddikydrave, has a molecubie weight of

any

ert HL. Batdwin ye ected a
(Gevetal Mamapar of Orsratnm of
Sherana Wilt Chemicate¢y Bes
Set The Sherein- Wills Cm:

Mead hte Rebs warcor sparen
aon

inrancatch, dentiop

mp teva the
Theses gteoae
AN aN

ite

Ungiresm
erat
SPACE AR ena.
Canati Represent
Trebnteat ewcare on

GEMTECH MARCHE 1079

we

CTR SP-FILES o146962

ie

