the Caicer SocKeIy-~ nol the tobacco industry

PHILIP MORRIS

Jasneu PGersstax.0Kn

Chairniai of the Board
y

Mr, William B. Lew
“American Cancer Sot
219 East 42nd Stscet

New York, New York 10017

Dear Mr. Lewi

‘Your leter of April 17 states that the American Cancer Society is unwilling to perm’ an impartial
review af the Auerbach-Elamntond data by “any lected committee chosen by the Tebaecc institute,
‘or any sther group.” :

‘You say our request “is without precedent in the sciemtific community,” I submit thet she Cancer
Society's exploitation ofthis wupublished work for publicity purposes is truly without precedents"
Eelgntiic couiniuaity, Through is use of publivity techniques rather tam the Usua selene channels, itis

dons af American science,
has projected this study into the arena of public discussion. Furthermore, in the scientific community,
‘expert review panels are often convened to review important questions which depend upea the
interpretation of research results,

‘Yon claim natholasiers hive visited Dr Ancrhach’s iced the work:
Why, Fen, do you reuse to permit an impactial r:vivw by distinguished scientists, especiall, in view of
your claim that this work is uf great significanee to the sinioking public and the tobacco industry?

‘As you say, Doctors Aucrbach and Hammoud worked with funds furnished by the federal goves
smontand tle American Cancer Society. Since these ane {uals derived from public sources, she public
envitled to a full anu fair acewunt of the tooulis, The - mt Caner Society eaniot presume Ww be tke
le edstocian and tmterprewer of the work.

‘You stated that these sciontists "are beholden only to the seieatifie community at lnege and (0 the
imegrity it represems,” But the American Cancer Society, aa organization supported by public donations,
is certainly also “beholden” to ts contributors ard to the public at targe to provide complete information
about the research which it finances, especially it view of the fact hal you have released n ~Ws of the
study t> the public media. When the Society is qi estioned intarprotations of such research, it
should feel a responsibility to disoloso the data which, i ullozes, support its interpretations.

‘You suggest thar the way (o resolve any doubts about the study i to have another research
“organization repeat the work—which you say, was conducted oxer a period of three and a half years. This
suggestion overtocks the fact that tie American Cancer Scxiety has called ipa the tabaecy inalustry
to reassee fis policies in ight of the preseat findings. FE this is the Society's position, i shoule nex expect or
‘want the cigarcite industry to go through three and a haf years of rescore fo dateravine anewrees
which tie Cancer Society asserts are available toca

Tn view of the American Cancer Susicty's position, we are proceeding to bring this aunter to the
atiention af the public.

‘Yours wry truly,

Joreph F.C
Chairman of ale Executive Comittee

T 2g 20g {re Tobscco tines, tne.
TIMN 0081918 .

