UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY

anaes ance TS aro Tata Batman OE ERO

pra Tst OF PAHO ICE ANATONY ‘peneeaty, CAPOMUA 64720

august 12, 1986

pr. Donald W. Ford

Teunetl for Tobacco Research
900 3rd Avenue

Hew York, Nx 10022

Dear Doni

thank you for your recent phove call. As we diacusseds 7 would
pe enthusiasrie te undertake, eogether wich Dr. Hudson 6Y collabarater
be Sany years and an expert OP werine, a research Progra addressing
She question, “oat Nicotine oe late AgerDepressed Brain Dopaminerate
systens

the cationale for this research {a haged both on oot extensive
studies of the selective 40700 fon of dopaminergic Systens with aging
a the current reports of Miestina etiaulation of synthesis and release
of prain dopamine (DA}~

te fe proposed that the researel ili he secomplished over S80
yeare with o year’s a7proxsaele ‘budget of wr’ a brief outline
ve the research followe-

prese

can Nicotine Stimlace AS pepresued Broin Dopaninersie systems?

Investigators: P.S- Timtrase pea PRaDeg Doherty Ly Hudsons Ph.D.

packground: Nicotine MAF tong deen snow to affect the aavit brain da
Bacenergependent feehion. foes ee see accrone axe to fact] ttBte ele-
Sovary forts of Learniniy Pofeulate or depress spontaneser moter
merivity, induce BEC and ehavioral arousal to the BOLNE of inducing
ateure discharges. Mnerene The foregoing effects are POve generals
seh) pow interested in Che the anisnn underlying suck respons’:
Mienin the ceatral nervous syeren a number of putative transmitters have
ween identitied vbieh act Oe Gohdbit certain pathaye involved 15
Fovenent. One pact ay ee oliing axccapyranidal activiiy ge the nSGEO-
striatal syst Ya dopamine is « key transmitter Micotine
stritteates che releeas 08 Stimulates the cyntheals of dopanine tn

Fach eerdatiue. can Sppropesert caerets of nicotine influence the
activity of the exvropyranidal eysten?

puring physiological #5t0E, Coney ety changes take place 4n the
pigrosertatal eysten socluding oes of DA neurons in the subetantia

