August 30, 1961

‘Dr. A. Younus
430 La Loma Road
Pasadena 2, California

Dear Doctor Magnuar

Thank you for your letter, I certainly agree vith you
that the study of permelectivity is an important subject and that
Shere should be many veiuable applications. The cell wall mst
certainly be such # mepbrane as you describe, In fact, a recant
paper in Bciense {Yang et al. Science, 134, 386, August 11, 1961)
Presents evidence of @ relation between carcinogenic potency of
Polymelear hydrocarbons and the degree in which the molecular sine
and shepe resemble those of steroias which ara able to penetrate the
eel] wells hus 1 appears that “carcinogentcity” my be related not
only to the electronis properties but elso to size and shape of
molecules.

‘The present filters on cigarettes do not offer undue
resistance to the passage of sir and anoke because the interstices
are relatively large. Soua fraction of the total number of microscopic
serosol droplets do impinge on surfaces and are trapped while some
fraction of the tote pans through unchanged. Those that impinge do
soalescs into A liquid (improperly called "tar*} which can be found
‘within the filter.

Tf you are going to filter out polynuclear hyérocarbous
nelectively, vill not all or nearly all of the droplets have to dupings
on the membrane so that the selective passage oan occur, the large
molecules being retained ville other ingredients pass? Wil] not thie
implogenart cmuse the droplets to conlesce so that a liquid is formed?

Could you not do a few preliminary axperinents using ©
meabrané of tha general properties that vould be required by inserting
guch into cigarettes ani observing the offect on dray resistance
(oressure drop) and simply note whether acy smoke, as smoke (not gue
mixture) passes through under norm presoures? ‘These would not have
to be membranes with the apecific selectivities in question, but simply
nexbranes with general physical properties of sufficient similarity to
Perait a preliminary observation.

