WINSTON MOTORSPORTS HEADQUARTERS

First Name Jn Motorsports

<Tithes FirstName» «LastName» ‘October 24, 1994
«Addresel»
Address?»

Dear «FirstNamen:

Hope you enjoyed yourself at the Texas Motorplex, ‘The cloudy weather didn’e seem to dampen the
driver's spirits in Fridey's first-round qualifying.

Top spots in first-round qualifying included Cory McClenathan in the Top Fuel class, Joho Force for
the Funny Car and Warren Jolson for Pro-Stock were also among the top qualifiers in the first-
round.

During the afternoon qualifying session, fan favorite Kenny Bernstein set a Top Fuel speed record
with 24.797 second, 304.87 mph pass.

Hope vou enioved the Winston Selests you reseived at the races, and thanks for filing ovt our

ailing list card. Here are w couple of coupons to save you a few bucks on your next purchases.

Don't forget to order your highly collectable Winsten Select Zippo®. We're enclosing two bonus
certificates worth 20 proofs, 50 now all you need are 120 more proofs to place your order --that's
only 60 packs (one pack of Winston Select equals two proofs), Remember, this is an exclusive offer
for Winston Sclect smokers at NHIRRA Winston Drag race events.

‘And since we'd like to know more about you and what you think about Winston Select, just (ake a
few minutes to fil out the enclosed survey. I'll really help us find cut what you're about and what
you'd like to see at future events. We are enclosing a postage-paid envelope and would appreciate
receiving your survey within the next two weeks.

Alsa check ont the Winston Select catalog in this packet --we think you will lke the selection of
Winston gear that you can order with Winston Select proofs,

Remember Winston Sclect the next time you purchase cigarettes. With the support of race fans like
you, we are able {0 continue our sponsorship of racing events. We share your enthusiasm for racing
and hope you will be able to attend other races

See you at the racest

Abi, Spenen—

Alex Spencer
‘Winston Brand Manager

&
=
3
rs)

SURGEON GENERAL'S WARNING: Cigarette

«Members

Brough to you by Winston Select King
Bing. “ta, 13mg rioting, a. per eayarctte by FTC method

Smoke Contains Carbon Monoxide.
© 1H RA aapet rc FIOLUSA

