Katzenstein Associates
81 Rockwood Drive
Carehmont, N.¥.10528

(9148341163
Joly 7, 1986

Rditox

‘The New York Times
229 West 43rd street
New York, NY 10036

Dear Sir:

The Times' editorial (July 3), citing Joseph Califano's statement
on the health risks that nonsmokers incur by exposure to environ~
mental tobacco smoke raises significant questions about the basis
for such a conclusion.

In 1979, while Mr. Califano was Secxetary of Health, Education
and Welfare, the then-Surgeon General's Teport on passive smoking
noted that "Healthy nonsmokers exposed to cigarette smoke have
little or no physiologic response to the smoke, and what response
does occur may be due to psychological factors." Although there
have been many reports since 1979 examining the linkage of smoke
exposure to nonsmokers’ health, the quality of the evidence today
certainly does not support the impression created by Mz. Califano
in your editorial.

in October 198%, the current Surgeon General, C. E. Koop, testified
before a Senate subcommittee that of 15 studies examining the
link between smoking and cancer, all but three showed a “statist~
- ically significant positive correlation." However, a review of
the references included in the Surgeon General's statement shows
that there were 15 zeports representing only 12 studies, o£:
which three had not been tested for statistical significance
while for two, no statistically significant correlation was found.
For three other studies, correlations were significant for one
sex but not for the other or for the group as a whole. Thus,

no more than four of the studies show consistent statistical
significance. In testifying again two months ago, the Surgeon
General modified bis characterization of the evidence and said
simply that "several" of the studies showed significant corzela-
tion.

Correlation, however, can never establish cause-and-effect rela~
tionships, nor does it indicate piolegical or health significance.

More important, every one of the studies cited by the Surgeon
General has been carefully reviewed by a number of investigators,

aby ezons

cron

