SECRET
January 26, 1995

TO: J. W. JOHNSTON
A.J. SCHINDLER

FROM: J.C. SCHROER

SUBJECT: MONTHLY SIGNIFICANT ACTIVITIES -- FULL PRICE BU!
RELATIONSHIP MARKETING/SAVINGS BU

WINSTON/CAMEL

CAMEL Cash VI

CAMEL Cash VI is continuing to greatly exceed forecasted expectations. The most popular
item to date (at 10% of tern mix) is the classically logoed Diner Mug featured on the cover,
followed closely by the classic Zippo and tin. In fact, ‘nine out of the top ten most popular items:
feature classic logos.

CAMEL VIP Club

+ The 1998 VIP Club Calendar will be mailed this week to 1M CAMEL VIP Ciub members.
‘The calendar reinforces ihe benefits of being a CAMEL VIP Club mamber and provides
them with travel and continuity offers and announcement of CAMEL motorsports, biker and
poo! player events this year. The calendar will also be used throughout the remainder of
1995 as the first communication someone receives once they leave the Genuine Taste
Miseion conversion program and are enrolled in the VIP club, since it clearly tays out the
benefits of Club membership.

«CAMEL postcards were sent to VIP Club members within a 200 mile radius of Pomona,
Galifomia, They announced the first drag race of the season as well as a special offer for
VIP Club members who purchased tickels through the Club Travel Desk. The package
includes: reserved seating, welcome bag with Smokin’ Joe's apparel, garage tour,
‘hospitality tent on Sunday, reserved parking, autograph session with the two Smokin’ Joe’s
drivers and prize drawings for Smokin’ Joe's merchandise, and the chance to be an
honorary pit crew member. The original forecast was to sell §0 race packages. Withia the
first four days, al! 50 packages were sold with an additional 52 people on the waiting lst.
Due to its popularity, negotiations are currently underway with the track to increase the size
of the Smokin’ Joe's Seating Section and accommodate those people on the waiting list

CAMEL Genuine Taste Mission

+ Wave 4; The Genuine Taste Mission generaled a 17.2% response to participate in the
program. {n order to boost the response for Wave 1, a product resolicitation was mailed
‘out to 252M non-responders. The resolicitation contained the following: a pack each of
Fiters 66's Soft Pack, Lights 85's Soft Pack, Special Lights 66's Box and Wides Lights; &
B2G2F coupon; and a BRC which serves as their final chance to sign up for the program.
The mix of four different styles was included to emphasize to compatitive smokers that

sé6te 69tT5
