November, 1995

Dear Athletic Director and Coaches,

‘Two-thirds of
minke the choice again. If people do aot begin to smoke as teenagers or children, its unlikely they will ever pick
up the habit.

‘The Environmental Tobacco Smoke (ETS) Committee of the Delaware Board of Health is committed to
reducing youth access to tobacco and increasing environmental supports for ceseation among target populations
sch as teens and children, ‘The ETS Committee is made up of a group of community members who are
concered about the health risks and dangers of tobacco use, The istue of teenage tobacco use is one challenge
‘that needs our attention now.

There has been litle progress in ceducing teenage smoking rates in the last decade despite continuing
progress against adult smoking, The most recent data indicates that smoking among young people actually
incceased since 1991, with the largest increase among the youngest smokers, The use of snuff increased 15
times end the use of chewing tobacco increased four times among male teens aged 17-19 years.

‘Youth access to tobscce is easy. In Ohio itis legal to sell tobacco to young people under the age of
18, but these laws are rarely enforced. Throughout Delaware County, minors were able to successfully buy
cigarettes 65% of the time during a compliance check. We must get serious about keeping tobacco out of the
bands of our kids.

Please review the enclosed flyer and educations! materials, The ETS Committee is asking you to take an
aggressive approach to this health problem among our children, Assist our high school athletes and their
friends fo remain tobacco free by:

1. Frequently discussing the harmful effects of cigarettes, smokeless tobacco and other tobacco

products.

2, Routinely providing health education materials on the dangers of smoking and secondhand smoke,

3. Referring teens who want to quit to local smoking cessation programs.

4, Address the tobacco myths communicated through advertising and encourage kids to stand up to peer

pressure.

‘IE you need additional information, please contact me at the Delaware Health Department,

Sincerely,
Julie Fisher
Health Educator

B.S, The decision to smoke or use tobacco products in nearly always made in the teen years, Please encourage
your students to choose a tobacco-ftee lifestyle today!

9626996207
