October 7, 1993

To: Mr. P. N. Michastson Fg
Mr. E, M. Blackmer 3 1999
Mr. D. N. fauco

FROM: D.H. Lockery

SUBJECT: OPERATIONAL SUMMARY OF 'S CONNEGTION (TY - SEPTEMBER 23-
OCTOBER 5

The first catalog order was procassed on September 23, after 90M catalogs were mailed to competitive
smokers in North Carolina on September 22, Catalog mailings to the two initial states (North Carolina and
Indiana} were staggered to ensure higher levels of customer service by minimizing peak calling volume.
The Indiana catalogs were mailed on October 4 to 110M competitive smokers. No orders have been
received from Indiarta smokers to-date,

‘Smoker response has been positive about the program, with orcar volume under expectation (only .7% of
smokers in North Carolina eligible to participate have ordered), This luxury has allowed ail business
functions involved in the program to "work out the bugs" with minimal fo no impact on smokers. The start-
up has been extremely smooth with no major operational issues.

One significant business opportunity has presented itself. Competitive smokers on the catalog mailing list
have shared the catalog with co-workers and friends, A number of thase smokers have called or mailed
orders which we have danlad due to third party verification requirements.

‘The following overviews key operational statistics through October 5. Limited analysis of available data
has been parformed. sions based on the initially small order volume would be premature. As order
volume Increases, emerging trends will be reported.

ORDER SUMMARY.
Nail ys. Phone
‘Quantity
(Qiders) —_Pergant Comments
Mail orders. 421 80% © The 638 orders ware placed by 830 smokers.
Phone orders 27 24% «Mall onders are sunning 2:1 since many of the smokers must

place thelr first order by mail to meet signature verification
TOTAL 638 Tequirements.
+ 728 calls hava been serviced with a 3:1 rallo of Inquiries to
phone orders, mainty attributed to the signature verification
requirement. ‘The remainder of calls are referral prospects

‘who are added to the mailing Tist, 2
Tobacco ys, Premium Ey
Quantity 2
Coders) Percent Comments 2
Tobacco only a7 68% «Many smokers are taking advantage of the discount on 8
Premiums only 5 1% premium items when making a carton purchase.
Both 18 34% —» The onder quantities represent 802 cartons and 350 premium.

Items sold, averaging 1.26 cartons per order.
TOTAL 038
