Bre RON Rechholtz-——

Xent New Camoaign

The now Kent print advertising 18 a dramatic departure from cane
paigns utilized in the recent past. DUrEng that time, Kant appeared
PaaS ee ete compete with WINSTON, Marlboro, ena other normal

Se eee heands by positioning Kent as an "AL} American” cigarette
Laver ee All american’ image. The "Outdoors In Kent”, “Coffee 'n
with an (dil executions were designed in this vein 38 opposed to the
Kent oh ind nicotine emphasis, the basis of Kent‘? franchise. ‘the
dow a’eeiieves that it was extremely difficult, £07 Kent to compete
Brand borsrnal flavor market since’St 4id not have the product nor
the past image to be a normal flavor cigarette,

share performance would indicate that Kent yee not successful, at
Seast froma sales standpoint, in establishing this desired image
2Shee the brand has maintained a constant Of flat share since late
$590, Only the introduction of product ‘extensions, Kent Nenthol 85
29Orent Menthol 100, has kept the brand fron declining in share.
aitnough these extensions could not be considered successful, never-
Ahejoss, they did obtain @ combined =? ~ ng share level. (Kent Menthol
$e°has recently been withdrawn from the market.)

Kent appears to he strategically positioning the brand as a" ality?
Kent appeigerette. The brand's basic promise: “quality”, is ingerted
primarily through the visual but Te & Beconcary degree in copy. Used
gp support the quality or class images Ars the micronite filter and
the mild, smooth taste copy lines. on addition, the micronite filter
the mippears to have some mystique of quality. ‘Kent states that &
Rambination of filter, taste, and othes attributes make the brand
fmerica's quality cigarette.

qhis campaign, although net speaking directly to “tax” and nicotine,
pri} maintains a low “tar? and higotine image due to the visual
Ehphasic on the white Kent package ‘and the copy emphasis on the
erpronite filter, Low "tar! and Rigotine is implied as opvosed to
Tifkg directly stated. In addition. Kent's history of a low “tar”
vesMSicotine brand aids to this inagd Kent appaars to be moving back
and the image and copy that made the prand successful ~~ that of the
tpseale, low "tar", and nicotine rand.

azsa SEz05
