INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM
FROM: — - Chandra K. Banerjee
Karen Womble
Joanne Taylor

TO: Grover M. Myers DATE: — March 17, 1994

SUBJECT: Invention Disclosure - Low-gas phase filter

Disclosed here is a filter that provides means for
significantly reducing both condensable and fixed gases from
cigarette smoke while maintaining the deliveries and draw
characteristics at FFLT level. The configuration of the
proposed filter is shown in the attached figure.

The filter consists of two segments, A 7-mm segment of
a low efficiency cellulose acetate filter like 10/35,000 or
12/50,000 dpf availabie from Zastman and a 20-mm segment. of
a low efficiency carbon in tow filter with an impermeable
plastic tube running through the middle. The plastic tube is
crimped at the tobacco end to restrict smoke from entering
the tuba, Thus all the smoke exiting the tobacco column is
forced to flow through the narrow passageway sandwiched
between the outer wall of the tube and the filter wrapper.
As shown in the figure this space is filled with low
efficiency tow and activated carbon granules. Presunably the
flow of smoke through this tow creates a high pressure drop
across the filtering column without causing cignificant
filtration. The filter is diluted to 50-52% air dilution.
The effect of the dilution is two folds. First, it reduces
the gas phase by simple dilution and second, it increases
the retention time for the smoke upstream the dilution holes
and thereby increases the interaction of the gaseous
components with carbon granules. This particular design of
the filter positions the maximum amount of granular carbon
upstream the dilution holes.

Filters were assembled manually by removing about 30
ng of tow and 25 ng of carbon granules from the center of a
20-mm ¢ in tow filter AN15501 available from Baumgartner. A
plastic tube with one end crimped was inserted into the
cavity created by removing the tow. Cigarettes were -
fabricated with Canel Lt.85 tobacco rod and the above
filter. A 7-mm cellulose acetate (10/35,000 apf) filter

Viste 95505

