wean e eee ena ewes aes © ws =

(Pa bop : Jo.

‘3

COWARD PRESS. M.D. MPH. Joka. ff
eatery
PORTLAND, OREGON #7207-0016
Cos 7295

sept. 7, 1982 ER. WR. Rownegey
“Tobaces Tash te

Hr. Horace R. Kornegay, Chairean
The Tobacco Institute

2875 Eye Street NW

Washington, Dé 20006

bear Mr. Kornegay:

Thenk you for your Aug. 9, 1982 response to wy earlier letter regand-
ing cigarettes that would be wore fire safe. I especially appreciated
the tine and effort that Mr. Rupp took in our long telephone conyer~
sation, His comments gave me a better unnderatanding of the problem.
Consequently when Mr. Harvey Berkal of the Canadian Broadcasting
Corp.'s National Consumer Affairs T¥ Show phoned ne from Toronto
Ontario about a proposed featuie on the sexf~extinguishing cigarette,

I suggested that he include tr, Rupp in the persons to contact to get
a balanced picture of the probien, 1 gave him Nr. Rupp’s phone number
(and a)80 that of Mr. HcGuire in San Francisco).

Since talking to Mr. Rupp I have had occasion to visit the Nat Sherman
Co. on a recent trip to New York (for other purposes!, 1 raised the
question of high tar content in their cigarette, but the official to
whon I spoke stated that she did not know what the tar content was,

T have since asked Mr. Pillsbury of the Federal Trade Commission's
Cigarette Testing Laboratory if he would test some of the Nat Sherman
brands to see Af they are consistently igh in tar. If your are ine
terested in his response let me know and I shall share it with you,

T would hope that it would be possible to develop @ cigarette thet
Yould be both slow burning and low in tar. If that is techincally
Impossible it could put a different light on the subject. Any more
inforaation that you or Hr. Rupp Would have on this facet of the prob-
lem would be appreciated.

Lagreed to let Mr. Rupp know my travel schedule for the next few
month's in case it would be feasible for him lor for you) to combine
one of your trips with a meeting with me while I'm in the East.
Excluding a short consultation visit to Fairbanks, Alaska in mid
Sept., the following is sy current schedule for the next two or three
months. San Francisco, Oct. 2 to 5, 1982; Boston, Oct. 23 to 26th
{nelusive) Montreal, Canada Nov, 23'to 16th 1982; Boston Wov. 19 and
Poth, Wew York City 2ist to 26th and Fort Lauderdale Florida Nov.
2gth'to Dec 23rd. : :

I am énolosing a copy of a résolution that I plan to introduce into
the oregon Hedical Association's neeting of the House of Delegates
this fall.

Sincerel:

Edward vress
