WIR Toteroffice Henorandun

Re: Review of Leaf and Materials Date: Jawuary 21, 1986
Strategic Plan

Tot Leaf and Materials Comittee From: Mary E. Stove
‘and Working Group Chairmen
Mr. R. E. Clements Dr. J. P. Dickerson
Hr. J. 8, Denpster Me. D. 5. Lynch
Hr. Js J. Ganglorr Mr. Thomas Pierce
Mr. R, He Henderson Mr. Julian Singer
Mr. D. P. Montgomery, Jr. Hrs. J.-P. Khoelery
Mr. A.C. Rhoads Mr RM, Winn

De, J. M. Rivers

In reviews of plans prepared by the four PQH Operating Committees,
the PQH Steering Comittee asked that some itens be conbined te provide a
more strategic focus. Seventeen issues which were identified initially
WALL be addressed at the Operating Committee level. Eight POM Strategic
Issues have been identified which will form the basis for management. of
the POH Plan by the Steering Coomittee. The eight Strategie Issues
consolidate sone Operating Comittee issues and separate issues which
deal with inprovenent-/developnent from those which dea) with
consistency /control..

For the Strategic Plan, the four Leaf ad Materials issues which
dealt with leaf have been consolidated into @ single issue - Leaf and
Blend Management. Additionally, strategies which deal with blend
improvement will be reported as a portion of a Strategic Issue on Product
Positioning and Development. The four Working Groups on leaf issues will
function as planned. The Operating Committee will consolidate reports
from the Horking Groups for review by the Steering Conmittee. The issue
on won-tebacco component specifications remains as a separate Strategie
Issue. I am attaching copies of the two Strategic Issues dealing with
Geaf and Materials as well as Ms, Monahan’s cover letter to the POM
Steering Committea for your review.

‘The plans which were developed by the five Leaf end Hateriels
Working Groups will not be changed by the reporting focus. There imy
however be some changes which must be nade as a result of resource
avatlability, and the Steering Committee my ask that the timing of
certain key action programs be reviewed to determine {f results can be
achieved on a shorter timtable. Jessie Mivers will be sending Working
Group Chairmen sumary charts of thelr Action Plans uhich indicate
Departmental responsibility and target dates. I would like to ask that

Oste ozszs
