Tue Councin ror Toracco RESBARCH-U.S.A., INC.

Surrounme BIOMEDICAL INVESTIGATION 900 Tame AveNvE
New Yor, NY 10022

com sarenss

Apgaye D_bisewsnna, Pe-D. August 17, 1992

Dr. James Mier
Division of Hematology/Oncology
New England Medical Center

750 Washington St.

Boston, Ma 02111

Dear Dr. Mie
‘Thank you for your expression of interest in our program of research support. I am
pleased to enciose a statement describing policies of The Council and a recent Annual Report
that lists grants currently supported. Our application procedure entails a mandatory two-step
process. First, a short preliminary inguirv is sent to members of the Executive Committee of
our Scientific Advisory Board who evaluate it for scicntific merit and for "fit" into The
Council’s current multidisciplinary biomedical research program. If the Committee's review
vote is positive, you will be provided with forms and instructions for completing a full
application. Im the event you receive an award, The Council will consider up to two annual
renewals on the basis of progress reports and materials submitted with renewal applications.
‘The Council operates two application cycles per year and accepts preliminary inquicies
year-round: the date of receipt by CTR determines the cycle in which the proposal is evaluated.
- Spring cycle - any inquiry received between February 15 and August 14 and encouraged
by the Executive Committee may be submitted as a full application by November 30.
~ Fall cycle - inquiries received between August 15 and February 14 and encouraged by
the Committee may be submitted as full applications by May 31:

Cycle ‘Pecliminary Inquiry Deadline for Notification Activation
Arrival at CTR Full Application Date Date
‘Spring Feb 15- Aug 14 Nov 30 Early May Tull
Fall Aug {5 - Feb 14 May 31 Early Oct Jan 1

The format for the preliminary application is as follows:

1. A three page narrative summary. This should contain a synopsis of the proposed project
including relevant background material, its present status and goals, a brief outtine of the
research and its impact, The summary should end with a sentence indicating the
anticipated duration of the project (onc, two or three years) and a single figure estimate
of the anticipated annual direct costs of the study as proposed. Please note that the three
page limit is absolute: no attachment pages containing photographs, charts or literature
citations will be accepted. If you judge suck materials are critical for the review of the
proposal, they must be accommodated within the three page limitation.

2. ‘Two page curricula vitae and scientific bibliographies of the applicant and principal
professional level collaborators (the NIH Cormat is quite acceptable). Again, the page
limit is strictly enforced; only two pages per investigator are forwarded to the Committee,

3. One copy each of any two or three publications, abstracts or manuscripts that are closely
related to the project for which funding is being sought.

Sincerely,

aRRaks Arthur D, Eisenberg

