RECEIVED

AUG 0 4 1999
Ap) anata somce ssc me R, B. SPELL

23D Prestarab, Penunyvania 5106-4490

na ging soon «Fa A363 559

July 30, 1999

Mr. Ronald S. Milstein
General Counsel
Lorillard Tobacco Co.
744 Groen Valley Rosd
Greensboro, KY 27408

Dear. Mr. Milstein

‘This Jetver will summarize che basis for (Mastcr Settlement Agreement) Participating Manufactures data
reporting requirements and request an effirmation that {orltrd Tobacco Co. wil fllow the encloses
reporting requirements,

Background

“With the signing of the tobacco Master Seulement Agreement, you must report your shipment of
garetts to Management Science Associates, Unstaied, bul pradealy infered. i «set of reporting
Sequirements to ensure tht shipment guia submited aze on a consistent basis from all companies,

‘As aparticipantin Management Science Associates’ CRA Service, you curreadly report ships 10 os.
‘Management Science Associates assures that you wish tose the data submitted to the CRA Service to
west soma of the Participating Manufacturer data reporting requirements. This assumption deremnds &
revisit of the CRA reporting requizements Co ensure that shipment data submitted to the CRA system are
ava consistent bacis rom all companies and consistent wit the Master Servement Agresrnent reposting
requirements.

"The CRA Service had its beginnings in the 1970¥. In 1983, a lengthy investigation into shipment volurae
nnbors combined with reaching a consensus amoog CRA participants produced a "new" statement of
‘CRA Service data reporting requirements that aze sil in effect today. A copy of a 1983 leter to your
‘company discusting these requirements is enclosed. The continuing goal of the CRA Service bas been
the parting of prodvct thet is available for parchuse by conrumers. As such, this is neither “gross” nor
net” in any of the classic manafacturing definitions.

“The question of whut product to include and what praduct to exclude i a practical compromise given that
the busis for a company’s date will be derived from their accounting systern, St is also given that not all
‘ompantes sceount far retumed goods, damaged goods, promotiooal product, ete. in an identical manner,

2269908

eorgh New York Chienge Los Angphs Born WintonSaex_Toconro Unatd Kinguom Malaya

