‘CONFIDENTIAL

R.D. Gamtison
FROM: 8.1, OLeary
DATE: June 22, 1994

SUBJECT; EW Retail Workplan Review

‘The positioning af WINSTON SELECT is underway. We have successfully communicated to Mariboro
‘smokers that SELECT i as good or better than their usual brand and generated significant tral, Our
Faxt slep is to pravide competitive smokers with fangible reasons to sufteh to SELEGT. Our new peaduct
message, "SELECT Tobaccos Demand Perfect Aging, Because You Can't Ruesh Smoth Flavor” strongly
‘communicates that better tobacoos make a batter smaking cigarette.

Ex Proposition Rationale

“The EW prapasition tekes this "mada better concept a step further In thel better tobacoas demand 3
better fitar. This EW Filter system removes taste impurities wftlch result in better tobaoca flavor —
“better at both ends."

‘As you know, we are looking at infroducing EW in the North end South Phoenix Divisions tor the state of
‘Arizona in October. We would like lo work closely with you in developing this infroduction. Because of
the extemal environment, EW is & critical proposition for Reynolds to consider. Ilis essentia) that we
‘work together in order to mary the EW intmduction with currently existing workplans.

Provided foe your review and recommendations are the folkewing:

EAN Inteoductory Temetable
+ EW Rotall Workplan Detail and Flowchart
«Fourth Quarler National Retail Workplan DotailFlowchan

In both workplans, | have highlighted issues tt warrant your consideration. Pioase view this document
fas = presiminary retail workplan that is not complete until we have addrassed any issues you might have
regarding the workplan.

“There are other elements ta the EW launch in you Arizona markt, such as media (OOH, print), direct
marketing and a separate EW warkpien POS changeover. We are planning an EW launch raeting for
‘early August to taka your team through the entire plan. However, at this time, your feedback on the retait
workplan is most important.

‘After your review, I would like to discuss aur next steps with you end Gharfie Davis.

ood
Attachments,
AL Bamett

e61z SzPrS
