sratitute of Ervronmantal Heath

Kettering Laboratory

qt {z3 ean AvenUS
Gineinnatl, ‘Onlo, 45267 0088
cS aA

poe

ff Heed
— February 20, 1990

‘The Council for ‘Tobacco Regearch-US.As Anc.

900 Third Avenue

‘New York NY 10022

‘qo Whom This May Concert:

“The following is@ letter oF jaquiry about possible CTR sterest in research support for
ongoing program. 3 1 recet’® CcT.R, approval for this ‘preliminary ovine of the study for which
capport is sought, 1 would TE mit the final proposal in time he the May 3), 1990, deadline #9
ropes of activation By tHE beginning of 1991. Ass0m€ Of YOU eed probably aieady knows! have
just recently retired from Tee National Instiutes of Heals ad am in the process of setting GO small
Heroratory in the Deportment a environmental Health at the ‘University of Cincinnati ‘Medical
Center. Several of any colleagues eh be moving from Bethesda tO Gincinnats between July and
December of this year:

Tile of Bratest: “Cytochrome 450 (Cuptad) Gene Expression”

einigal investnasar: Daniel W. Nebert

guaffs A. Pues, HI werzog, C. E. McKinney, and Res. Asst. 1HQ-L. Duh)

Senses of Sansa Departmental Start-Up Funds

rand spharmacogenetios” cOnC (digsyaseatic) dre responses that have
‘an heritable basis. "Responses include both acute (€.2- sTfypotension) and enronic (6.8 hupoid
Trepattis, cancer) effects. Aa jiosyncratic. icipated reactionssoch
neeeidental overdosage oF aller ‘phenot rugs” are meant wo include ‘addition to the mony
areal prescribed agents, the Prpumerable environmental Mipemicats and other substances Of this
Sphaner that cange into the ‘millions.

contin elses of genes encode ene nat metabolize Foodstull, OTB © rcinogens, and
cenvivoomental potitants. ‘These £6025 eipear vo have evolved GUCINE INS PE "billion years oF more
vi peganisens--aninials it £65P0038 ppeay pis, plans dve (ote DEN ingested by animals,
ha prokaryotes in response 10 Pequirements for energy and doe eal, Numerous Foreign chemicn’s
fand various sigaals stimulate induce) many of these drug-mecabotizing activities ‘Endogenous
Spommeats such as steroids and inter gpride hormones ako reaelate Se or these activities. ThE
Gnechanisers involving te and Sion ofthese enzymnee ate FEHEVATE ‘Fundamenta} motecular genetics.
Gevetapmental enzymolOBY. vedio penis, carcinogenesis, MUIagENEs + endocrinology, and Ark
qecrion, soterance and 10¥ici1¥-

pharmacogeneticaly relevant M2 TES encoded by these genes include the cytochromes F450,
UDP glucuronosyliransf erases, fivtathione troastereses. etyltransterases, sulgoteansterases,
‘quinone reductases. iglucose-6-phosohate dehydrogensse, nd various qiucosidases, lycosvlases ang
eaterases. Human’ polymorphisms associated a eecironenensalty caused disease Rave ‘pen described
for large number of these geneS- sive than 60 pharmacogenctie polymorphisms have been

ppajent Care » Eavcation « Resear corwmunity Service
‘An aera oppansity CIID

