cen
Sas
‘SECRET re
January 26, 1995
To: J. W. JOHNSTON

A.J. SCHINDLER
FROM: J... SCHROER

SUBJECT: MONTHLY SIGNIFICANT ACTIVITIES ~ FULL PRICE BU
RELATIONSHIP MARKETING/SAVINGS BU

“WINS TON/CAMEL:
CAMEL Cash VI : a

CAMEL Cash VI is continuing to greatly exceed forecasted expectations. The most popular
item to date (at 10% of item mix) is the classically logoed Diner Mug teatured on the cover,
followed closely by the classic Zippo and tin. In fact, nine out of the top tan most popuiar items,
feature classic logos.

CAMEL VIP Ch

«The 1995 VIP Club Calendar wil ba mailed this week to 1M CAMEL VIP Club members.
The calendar reinforcas the benefits of being a CAMEL VIP Club member and provides
‘them with travel and continuity offers and announcement of CAMEL motorsports, biker and
pool player events this year. The calendar wil also be used throughout the remainder of
1995 as the first communication someone receives once they leave the Genuine Taste
Mission conversion program and are envolled in the VIP club, since it clearly lays out the
benefits of Club membership.

© CAMEL postcards were sent to VIP Club members within a 200 mil radius of Pomona,
California. They announced the first drag race of the season as well as a special offer for
VIP Club members who purchased tickets through the Club Travel Desk. The package
includes: reserved sealing, welcome bag with Smokin’ Joe's apparel, garage four,
hespitalty tent on Sunday, reserved parking, autograph session with the two Smokin’ Joe's
drivers and prize drawings for Smokir’ Joe’s merchandise, and the chance to be an
honorary pit crew member. The original forecast was to sell 50 race packages. Wein the
first four days, af 50 packages were sold with an additional 52 people on the waiting Est.
Due to its popuiafity, negotiations are currently underway with the track to increase the size
‘of the Smokin’ Joe's Seating Section and accommodate those people on the walting ist

(CAMEL Genuine Taste Mission

«Wave 1: The Genuine Taste Mission generated a 17.2% response to participate in the
program. In order to boost the response for Wave 1, a product resolicitation was mailed
‘out to 252M non-responders. The resdlicitation contained the fallowing: @ pack each of
Fitters 85's Soft Pack, Lights 85's Soft Pack, Special Lights 85's Box and Wides Lights; a
‘B2G2F coupon; and a BRC which serves as their final chance to sign up for the program.
‘The mix of four different styles was included to emphasize to compettive smokers that

1664 OS6TS

