File Monthly Repwt Foldew

Mr. Ree Cundtfe ©"

Ret Tobacco Products Development Div

—_-Honthly Report - September, 1976

NEW PRODUCTS DEVELOPMENT

‘dgaratze ~_NOW

Extended factory testing to evaluate the tar delivery achieved via
ghange to 855 paper is complete and under evaluation, llowever, because
jatest Quality Control data indicate an increase in the tar of the product
end a corporate change to 1 ng. tar is imminent, the paper change may not
be instituted.

Factory tests have been made for NFO testing of 1 mg. NOW Regular
and Menthol, The Menthol test was acceptable for matlout; however, the
Regular had to be remade due to high tar delivery for the 1 mg. portion,
Bopides a remake of the 1 mg. portion, an alternative 1 mg. product having
a paper and Eilter change will be made to increase the probability of having
@ satisfactory product.

Marketing plans to commence production of the 1 mg, product in mid to
late October and achieve significant market distribution by m{d-December,
Should the results of HFO testing indicete product weaknesses, corrective
modifications will be made as soon as possible. However, varketing of the
J mg. product will not depend upon the results of NFO testing. Materials
for the 1 ng, product are being ordered this week.

2s Project RL

‘Two regular and two menthol RL candidates are being made as a Factory
Test for NFO comparison with Merit regular and menthol, Aging studies vill
be conducted to determine the shelf life of the RL products which do not
have any propylene glycol ot other mold inhibitor. The topline NFO resulta
should be available in mid-Novenber if the products now being made are
acceptable.

Development of other RL prototypes including non-cased G-7 voretons will
continue, Also, tests to compare the advantages of using 60 or 120 cuts per
inch for the stem are boing conducted.

Special tests designed to yield cigarettes having a 10 to 1 tar to
nicotine ratio have heen successfully completed. This product Le for con~
cept study only and is not economically viable,

BELL 69005

