FRED - )
HUTCHINSON
CANCER,
RESEARCH
( CENTER

obec. Day, MLD. Ph.
Director and Chit oncutwe One

‘August 24, 1000
ASSIST Executive Commits

‘The American Canoes Society

‘Washington Delon, ino.

2120 tat Ave. A

‘Saatto, WA 96109

Coe Gomentige members:

“Thank you for ining the Fred Hutchinson Cencer Flaasarch Cantar to jon thie worthwhile project.
We sazoort, and ere happy lo contibule ta, your stfors to bring this project Washington State.

‘Aa a concer research inetision, we are wer eware ofthe delaterious effects of tobacco and devote
much of cur energy to ently Interventions that era eficacious in preverting inbecco use and aseiaiog
srnokees to achieve catsation. We are the research instixion for one ofthe sleven COMMAT sli aid have,
‘einect much knowledge on working with communities to addrees this puttic heath problem.

‘Should the Washington State application ta fautielpate In ASSIST be funded, we am prepared to
‘contribute the falowdng types of rescues:

1, Access to latest Gncings in our rasanrch projects around tobacco control:
2. Acoaes to researchers from the Cancer Prevention Research Programm at our insthution;
1 Coneutation on penpoted isterventions around tebacco-control in Washington State;
4. Oata on Tobecco-ratated clnenses and deaths by geographic area In Washington Stxte;
5. Access to atu isaries on tobacco research and communty organization rewaarch;
‘Access to tha Intervention materils developed for our tnbacco-contial nessareh; anc

7. Adee and consutation as required.

‘Attached ploate find a sonrpltad form dotaling our capabiltics and experienc. | have asked Dr.
Beli Thompson of the Cancar Prevantion Rassarch Program ip serve as the contact botwoon the Cancer
‘Contac and ASSIST. Noadiods to ey | woud be ploased 10 sravide further information or support Fl cou
be helpful. # know that Dr. Thompson, who és moat knowledgeable kt tha areas af smoking prevention and:
‘cessation, wil offer to you simiar wpport and very considerable eelentifc background and! ad

wn
| Beare Bee, 3

‘M124 Columbia Steet Seatite, Washmngton 96104. 206 467 4362 [FAX]]08 467 Stet
