No. 240 7% February 11, 1983 Le

TO: Mr. J. W, Johnston

H. J, Lees

Weekly Status Report - New Brands and STP

The significant activities for New Brands and STP for the
week of 2/7/83 were:

New Brands
Project VB

© Quantitative packaging results were received and forwarded
to you. It was agreed that we will print for market intro~
duction the approved package design which is going into
Assessor. The results indicated there was no clear overall
preference for the "Assessor" or "Alternative" full flavor
designs, although the "Assessor" design was rated more often
as having "Better/Same Taste” than the respondent's current
brand. The "Alternative" Lights pack was preferred by
respondents over the “Assessor” pack on "Better/Same Taste”
and overall "Appeal"; however, the monadic ratings of the
Lights "Assessor" pack were comparable to the Full Flavor
“Assessor” pack. The "Assesgor" pack for both styles was
selected for introduction, given the graphic design is more
proprietary and ownable long-term.

© B's Lights product was made at the Pilot Plant for Assessor
while the Full Flavor product was made at Manufacturing. 1,000
cartons of each style have been wrapped for Assessor allowing
for two-week aging pre-fielding of the test.

Next step will be to hand stamp all Aesessor product at Manu-
facturing the week of February 14.

@ B's quantitative Advertising Communications Test results were
presented to you along with recommendations for next steps.
Another test is being fielded this week to explore copy lines
that more directly communicate savings.

Results from the second round of testing will be reviewed on.
February 21, along with a recommendation on Assessor materials
and campaign extendability.

@ A pricing recommendation for a national List Price of $22.76/M
has been forwarded to you. All related departments are in ,
agreement with charging one price nationally.

Next steps include completion of detailed financials based on
this price recommendation. -

9692 a5s0s

