RECEIVED a8 533
WAY, FIELD & BODRON
ASTON AN CURLS a
soci stat
vase war mumos
rss, Reser

pire

December 27, 1995

Mr. Ron Morris
The Tobacco Institute
1875 I Street
Washington, DC 20006

Dear Mr. Morris:

The Mississippi Legislation will convene at Noon Tuesday, January

. Under present law the session iz schedule to last 125 calendar
days, Under the present law the first session of a term is 125
calendar days and the other three sessions are 90 daye each.
There is enclosed herewith a schedule of dead line based upon the
coming session, lasting 125 days. There ig a movement to shorten
the session to 97 days. There is some opposition to shorten the
session at all and there are those who would like to make all the
sessions 90 days. If the session is shorten the enclosed dead line
schedule will not be applicable and a new formula dead line
schedule will be based upon what ever length is finally agreed upon
by a majority of both houses.

The house is fairly stable with two exceptions. The leadership
will be essentially the same as it was during the preceding
sagsions. The two exceptions are as follows: Rapresentative
Endress who was Chairman of the Rules Committee was defeated in the
election. It is my opinion that Representative J.P. Compretta will
be appointad CHAIRMAN OF Rules committe, but I do not know that.
The Chief Justice Honorable Armis Hawkins resigned and the Governor
appointed Representative Mike Mills to the supreme court. Mills
was Chairman of Judiciary A Committe which means he was also
Chairman of Judiciary en banc. John Reeves a white Republican from
Jackson ie VICE Chairman of Judiciary A and Ed Blackman, a black
Democrat from Canton is Chairman of Judiciary B, both would like to
succeed Mills. In my opinion neither will be successful. My
speculation is that Mills will be succeed by Ed Perry who ig from
Oxford. There are those who think that Perry will be Chairman of
the Rules Committee rather than Compratta. Tha

Senate is far less predictable at this point than the House.

CONFIDENTIAL:
MISSISSIPPI TOBACCO LITIGATION

“TIM500033553
