UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA,
HEALTH
SCIENCES
CENTER
DEPARTMENT OF PALHIGLOGY

May 17, 1990

Dr. Harnon McAllicter
The Council For Tobacco Research - U.S.A.
900 Third Avenue

New York, N.Y, 10022

Dear Dr. McAllister:

Uiih the May 31 deadline for grant epplications approaching, I thought 1t
vould be appropriate for ne to forvard a brief letecr outlining the orcece
Progrone ,iM OUr research program. As you may recall, the Executive Comittee
gf the Sctentifie Advisory Board reviewed a prelininary research proposal ef ive
in Recenber of 1989. As requested by the comlitee. 1 coapleced a fill
apolication that was received by your office on February 1, 1990" The title ot
the application was Bleceron Microscopy Studies of a Hacroglobulin,

We have nade some significant progresa over tha past few months and we now
have 8 nev manuscript in press in The Biochemical Journal. the title ot oe
cereredta ins Structure of ay-Nacroglobulin-ethylamina a(ter Papain Digestion
ae Determined by Electron Microscopy". Soma of the studies in thie manuscript
aig, uttined An the grant applteation under Supporeing Date: Papain Fragaented

ay.

More importantly, ve have taken significant steps to assure that out
puegtzen etcroeeopy studies will apply the most advanced technologies tk che
future, | First, we are now connitted to the preperation of our ose eansia cr
Uiegicty wmectenal antibodies, Dr. WtA1ian Sutherland, at the Untveraity of
qifeins is assisting us in this endeavor. In early April, ve inmusleed the
Tance group of etx mice with purified human oyt-methylanine. the seotta
Sumuntzation wae completed last week. We should be performing our fret facie
Procedures in the very neat future.

We have two major goats for these monaclonal antibodies that are relevam,
to the specific aius of the grant application:

2 AS PATE OF Specific Alm 1. the monocional antibodies vill be used co
erack the wovenent of specific epitopes in a4 before and after
Conformational change and in the various a; conforaat ional intermediates
under investigation. The addition of thi technology chould alloc ue te
slenifleantly refine our models of ajH conforaational change.

2. Each monoclonal antibody will be screened for ability to inhibit growth
factor binding to apt. We may find chat Kab fragnente of the monolont

LBEALIM SCIENCES CENTER BOX 224, CHANOOTTESYME, WEGRVA 27908

40304878”
