IAQ / BWC INDOOR AIR QUALITY AND BUILOING WELLNESS CONSULTANCY

ATLANTA:

January 20, 1992
225 Mi. Ranier Way

REPERENCE: REQUEST FOR INFORMATION: OCCUPATIONAL

E RIN ATIONAL (apa) 3941879
EXPOSURE TO INDOOR AIR POLLUTANTS #29 (9 senaray Fax
n von -_
pocket Officer. Docket # W122 COCKER OFFIOER -
U.S. Department of Labor are /_JAN 2 7 Wee

200 Constitution avenue. NW

Washington. D.C. 20210 iad

THe Es

Gentlemen:

This is in response to the above referenced inquiry.

TAQ/Rui ding Wellness Consultancy is a consulting firm
which Tecuses upen education, diagnostics, and mitigation
te a ctient base of building owners, managers, and varied
service orgugizations dealing with air quality issues. as
thé principal. this writer, Hl. E. “Barney” Burroughs, has
over 30 vears in the field of specialty filtration. has
been active with ASHRAE having been the Society President,
and surveyed Jiterally hundreds of buildings having air and
environmental problems. The comments that I submit
therefore, come from the perspective of third party
observation rather than the first party perspective of an
owner.

Reference (16) [nm addition to the evidence sited in the
inquiry. our experience would suggest any visible evidence
of architectural water incursion such as wet ar stained
ceiling tile, wet carpeting, discolored paint and/or wall
coverings nround windows. Evidence of high levels of
particulate build-up on surfaces, a/c outlets, and return
diffusers indicates possible smoking in Che space. poor
housekeeping technigues, inadequate filtration, or very
high particulate generating activily in the space,
Particulate dDuild-up on coils. inside air handlers, and in
ductwork provides potential for microbial nutsients and
provides evidence of poor iltration, and general poor
maintenance techniques. Closed or compromised ventilation
entry. aged air. low air movement, all are evidence of low
ventilation or ventilation effectiveness, Likewise.
inappropriate air pressures from one zone to another give a
clue for impropes air distribution. Matodors, littered
mechanical roous. poorly located make-up air louvres, and
obvious poor housekeeping are also visual evidence,
Fxecxsive population density and high incidence of office
equipment are aiso clues to potential under-ventilation and
under-coaling.

Alpharetta, Georgia 30202

T96E OLsts

