CO’

Wd

Tobacco Company
July 25, 1990
PETER J. HOULT
Executive Viea President
wr, J, U, Johnston Moreeting
Chairman and CEO
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company lost Salem, NS. 27102
Peax Jim:

We have reviewed your speech to Moody's. The following will provide you additional
background to your points.

@ Based on May yaar-to-date Nielsen performance, RIR not only markets five of che top ten

brands, but aiso three of the top five. ‘These ere WINSTON (2), SALEM (3), DORAL (4),
CAMEL (6), and VANTAGE (10). Specific Nielsen share levels ave attached.

© «With regard to specific brand efforts:

Attached are several documents for nore specific background material.

WINSTON’s quality improvement efforts have been going on for some time, This will
be the focus of its new positioning which will be launched in October of this year,
Work continues on Project QD for test market introduction in 1991. (National Looks
unlikely at this stage).

In addition to the evolution of the highly successful "Smooth Character” campaign,
two line extensions are currently under development -- CAMEL Ultra Lights and CAMEL
Fe,

WORIZON {4s performing extremely well in test market with a 1.4% retail share
(heavily promoted).

DAKOTA is also performing extremely vell in test markets, exhibiting 1.3% retail
share in Houston and .8% ehare in Nashville (heavily promoted).

SALEM has 2 number of efforts under test to challenge Newport. These include
veduced menthol products (SALEM GOLD, SALEM Box, MR), and in-market 18-24 year old
adult smoker warket activities (Soundvaves, Menthol Initiative).

VANTAGE 1s continuing to assess its in-market ultra lights emphasis program
designed to challenge Marlboro Ultra Lights. We are optimistic about this effort
given posit: eved in test.

The efforts in improving Savings’ business hava been going well ~- DORAL is
exhibiting strength in-market as indicated by Nielsen share, It overtook Kool as
fourth ranking brand in May. We see opportunity at the mid-price point. In
addition to MAGNA, STERLING is scheduled for introduction in October, 1990.

s
ee 3
fear tel x
Avtachnents “We work for smokers.” S

ce: Mr. E, J. Fackelman, Me. J. D. Reber
pRS-CEM

