Decesber 22, 296%

Fook P. Strom, M.D,
Professor of Pathology
‘Louletana State Gnivers!ty School of Medicine
Bapertacnt of Patholoay
Tulare Averut
Wey Orleans, Louleiaca 70212
Rear Bactor strong:

‘Upon the recommendation of the Selentific Adviwory Board to the
Counctl For Tobacco Research, a financial grant hae bees epproved tn the
amount of $17,531.00, in accordance with the epplioation filed by you onder
Gate of Septerbor 25, 1964,

Tk te understood that this grant is made subjert ta soeeptence
ty the appropriate university authorities.

According to onr understanding, this precent grant will able
you to completa tha progran substantially a# outlined in your original ap-
plication. Herce this grant is regarded as the tereinal one for this progect.
New epplizations vay, of course, ba filed with the Round
consideration on the sent baste as those from other qualified scientific Leb~
gretoriea ent in the Light of the abtuation which my than exist in the over

progrant.

Please refer to the Statewent of Policy containing the ounditions
and terus unter which the above-mentioned grant ts to be aduinietered wich
you received with your application Denks.

‘In preparing aeatancual grogrose reyurts we wild sppresiate it if
¢ the format shown on ¢he enclosed sample and furpish wa with 15
WoulA ales Like to be advised of any gublished papers resulting
frou tig grant. When reprints are available ve walla appreciate 25 copies.

‘The Council For Tobeces Research vil} wake an amnontcament of this
wand in tho Annual Report of the Sclentific Director and in press releases
eoquording ta established practice.

Any questions of & sefentific mature thet may arise concerning the
peolect should be referred to Br, Robart C. Hockett, Associate Belentific Diy~

actor, art we will appreciate your keeping him inforsed of progress at intexyule.
Attar diacuaaing the approval of the project with the proper officers

of your Institution, will you please notify we of your acceptance of this grant
yee etoted toms. We understand thal it will becowa estive ae of February
1» 1965»

Sincerely youra,
martin Wet. foyt

(enclomre) Seegutive Director

