FEM tne Gy fo Ae

Research/Sirategy/Management inc.

September 26, 1997
MEMORANDUM FOR: — Tom Griscom
FROM: Ron Hinekley
SUBJECT: Pollsters Breakfast, Focus Groups, and Monitor

‘Attached js the memorandum and the data summary that I gave (o Joe Gaylord, It formed the basis.
for my discussions atthe breakfast. As 1mentioned, ‘GOP principles” and “family involvement”
‘were well received concepts. Attached after the Gaylord memo and data summary is a proposal for
an “issues probe” research program.

“The focus groups are scl as follows:

‘Wednesday, Oclober 15, St. Louis, Missouri, Mary Lucas Markeling Research:
6:00pm Female Smokers
8:00pm Male Non-smokers
‘Thursday, October 16, Atlante, Georgia, Focus on Atlanta
6:00pm Female Non-smokers
8:00pm Male Smokers

‘They have done our RIR work in these cities before, and you or your staff shoutd be familiar with
them, Nevertheless, I will forward ditcetions and lodging information as we get closer to the dates.
They are already working on recruitment (12 to 14 cecrvited for 10-12 parlieipants for each group)
with the normal RJR screcner that includes our “ban” question to eliminate anyone who wanls to
‘oputlaw tobacco products in all situations and times.

“The costs for these groups will be $20,000 plus Lravel expenses. This is the top-end of what our
proposal indicated, but includes for my time, over the last several weeks working an the pollsters
breakfast activities, Ihave included an invoice for this project,

To the focus groups, we will discuss what expectations people have of the tobacco settlement, what
they expect tobacco companies to do in terms of working with Congress to produce a final
settlement, and what it would take to convinee them that tobacco companics are serious about
taking alt conditions ofthe settlement work. ‘This will provide information for the public opinion
imonitor on these topics that we have scheduled for lale-Ociober, carly-November. A preliminary
ulline ofthe discussion guide for the focus groups is attached for your review. I will flesh it out
after we have had a chance to discuss it together,

20 Courhoure Squat, Bute 206, Recta, MD 20880, 301/610:7470, FAK SOLSTOTEIE

yle0 ziszs

