UFAC

ronnie August 22, 1979

We, George Anikix, Program Manager

Fire and Thermal Sum Program

Office of Program Management

0. §. Consumer Product Safety Commission
5401 Westbard Avaque

Washington, D.C. 20207

Deer George

Thank you for your Letcex of July 23 reporting upon che posting
Tevytg 18 in ohich the Scaff updated the Commissioners on your
Gbservacions of the OFAC volumcary action program,

ecicularly
the

fests condveted ac Guilford Laboratories on Sime 26-28.

le is particularly gratifying go us chat the staff recognizes
that che ignitions Gf post-UFAC chairs under che overhang of che
Sabie Svatare e comon problem co both che UFAC voluncary action
program and the proposed Gandacory standard.

Tm answer to your question regarding the portion of the cocal
BBO iipresenced by this cype of arm construction. we vould
mae te to be Less than 5% of the volume of furntrure produc.
tion toda

ind may ba fone Covorraw. Hows’

| some other deparcure from the

and iTavar’abucpane of the MUPT prototype will probably come along

to take ita pi ‘There will always be sove geometric depazcure
fom che norm. and i is impossible to

imate what percent of

PoRicure sucpur vould be represented by thes, That is, che season

furniewtontention all along chat there is not a reliably high
Eeyece of correlation between the perfornence of the MUFT pEoto~
type and production line furniture.

Te ds true thac on the saddle arp chair there vere six ignitions
aE the post-UFAC construction, In our setter of July 17 to

oF ene poring. we said thee ail six occurred under the overhang of

Chatmadie atm. Jim Rayburn of Guilford Lab correcta us to tne

meuaen assooamios ¢ooeTcading velt edge of a cushion, Jim further points
‘segoaren SEE chat om the chaira in fabrics No. 1, 3 and 5, which
sone care UEAC Claas i fabrias, the conseruccions ungee Che

pooet wee gon the pres and poar-UFAC chairs vere identical.
wennSa.. Only on fabrics 2 and 4, which were UFAC Class TI fabrics,

Son Foo

Youaxe correct chat it iz a style that is here today

ene etal Scfees thae chare were five under the overhang ané one on
