{THE SEGRRTARY OF VETERANS AFEAIRE ead
WASHINGTON x
RP
Mat 26/992

‘tne Honorable G.¥. (Sony) Sontgomery
Chaieman, Comalttee on

Veterans’ Affaire

House of Reprosentativ
Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear ex. Chaixmaat

We exe providing you with our views of HR. 3]98, 4
bal} “fy enhance the dignity and aona} ixesdom of
patients in medical centere, nursing homew, end

vee ieiiiaries operated by tha Departmant of Veterans
Aetaize."

WLR. 1199 would grant each veteran whe is 4 Bi

rosiduit inva facllity of foe Department of Vetncans Affaire
see et. (consietent with medical requirements spd

Phe Teena) te purchase and uso tobacco products. | Tae boil
iimizey che Becrotary of Veterans Affairs to, cneok) ‘that
regu recility with a commissary or canteen make tobacco
Groduces availeble and provide each pation’ OF resident
Brotha ete the comminaazy or canteens and that faciliciee
accuse tT ieitable indvor patient sacking area and orovite
fecese to that area for patients ox reaideats who desire to
wwe tabacco preducte-

Active snoking is rasponsible tor aore than one of
every six doarne in the United States and resains che aipgie
SUEU ptaventabie couse of death in the country. Over tne,
past fifteen years, an ape ate of deta hav been
cumulated t support the conclusio!
faoke or passive smoking is aleo hesardous

‘Documentavson shows that there is no safo
RonaumclMinvizonmencel smoke, and thet it ie sot relly
possible to enganear the smcke cut of iosloor designated
seokiag axean.

te addrose this problea, tha Chief Medical Direstor

implemented a saokecfzee policy in all wedice) centers ved
‘phe goal of this policy is to remove

cit pa ters of enviroomenval cr second band smoke fron vhsoe
fattenee who do noe smoke or vho have nedical probloas that,
pavisOrecned by epocare th amoke. The policy doce
Tecognize, however, that sacking is addictive, aad thagctore
Se eees contein vone exceptions to the generel pan on
anoking. This Va policy onaistent with the policies
iaetitla by the Joint Commiseion on Bocreditanion of
soiithcare’ organizations (JCAHO), that all accredited

eeze TOSTS
