(7 ~ Tobacco Company

QQ*UlP
KYKynty

Winston-Salem, N.C. 27102
919-741-5000

May 31, 1990

Dear Fellow Employee:

During the past month, there have been maay news reports about outlandish claims that
environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) is a major health hazard,

On May 9, ina draft report leaked to the news media in violation of the Environmental
Protection Agency's awn policies and procedures, the EPA claimed that ETS causes 3,800
lung-cancer deaths in the United States each year,

On May 21, news articles reported that a statistician from the University of California at San
Francisco claimed that BTS causes 32,000 heart-disease deaths cach year.

You've probably seen or heard these ctaims reported asif they were established facts. But the
truth is, these claims are unproven beliefs based on false assumptions,

First, no scientific study has ever shown that ETS causes lung cancer or heart disease, so any
claims to that effect are nothing but scare tactics by anti-smokers. Researchers have tried to
cause disease in laboratory animals by exposing them to high levels of ETS, but none have
succeeded.

Second, the people making these claims are selectively choosing “evidence” from just a few
studies that have surveyed smokers and their families. Meanwhile, they are ignoring
information from the same studies and other studies that contradicts their paint of view.

Ontop of that, they are using mathematics, statistics and assumptions to estimate the publie’s
risk froma substance that has no clear risk. Honest analysis looks at all available evidence, not
just information that supports an anti-smoking position.

‘These anti-smokers don’t mention that some studies show that people exposed to BTS have
Jess Jung cancer and heart disease than the general population. Most of the studies showed no
eal difference. Ihave reviewed all the studies with highly respected outside experts, anc they
have concluded that these studies do not demonstrate that ETS increases a nonsmoker's risk
of heart or Jung disease,

-conlinned-

16S6 2940S

“We work for smokers.”

