INTEROFFICE MEMORAKOUM

Tor Gr, A.W. Mayer caTE: July 28, 1966

FROM: J. 0. deBethicy

GUBSECT: SUMFARY OF NICOTINE METABOLISM AND PHARMACOKINETICS
PROGRAM

The nicotine netevelisn and pharmacokinetics progran ot RIRT {9 divided
inte three major sarees

1. Aealytical methods for nicotine and tts netabelstes in Disiogiral
sangles.

2. Phermacchinetie enalysia of nicotine dispositian in aninats and man

3. Ident itseation of factors that influence nicotine dispasstice such er
smoke constituents, nicotine itzelf, and dict.

Nicotine Aneive:

See esc cvergil goal ts to thoroughly understand the disposition oF
nigstine an aninals and-nen, it wes necessary to develop the analytical
methodology to supnort this activity.

1. Ue nave developed a radiometric HPLC method that permits us to analyse
hiological samples for nicotine and 13 ef its metabolites in one
Sheonetograchie run, This RPLC method allows us to quentitete nearly every
sifebelite of nicotine knoun 13 nan in sencles obtained fron animals or runans
treated with raditebeled nicotine.

2. Im atdition, ue nave developed rapid end sundle clesnue nethed for the
chalysts ef nicotine end cotinine in biclcgical sonples by gas chranalogran hy.
Jha nethedology 1s being used to eralyze alezna senples fren humans and vals
sree soa ta cigerette smoke containing untaueled or “cold* nicotine, Our gee)
ceeee develop the capability of analyzing for nicotine and ats metebolites tn
any biological neirix presented to us.

arn

acdkiertitdve the anslylicel sethadolegy te lock ot nore metabaiives of
nicotine than ves srevioualy possible, ue are drsipning excerincats to
siverntne tne dose depandent pharnacokinatice of these matabolites (ee veil 22
steotine? in nen and eninals vhea nicotine is aduiniatered by the intravenous
rou.s, a8 wall as, via tobacco snake.

Love 4e9as

te Studies ere currently uaderuay that exanine the dose dependent excretion of
sjeotina are tis metetolitas in rats. These studies have aboun that ascot ine
see ereie etebolived in the rat to aeiebalites such as Sonyridyl acetic seid
that are langer-lived tha fine, Io the rat, eatining 12 in fect 9 sinor
see ey netabelite. Understanding the pharnacakinetics of ine excretion of
srgotine cotanine, and the other metabolites 4 important because of {he Use

