. peu

ad

Fevruery 10,1986

INIER-OFFICE HEMORANOUM

To: Ray U. Hawley
FROM: Stephen B. Sears

SUBJECT: Motivation and Description of Maximum Entropy Fermelisn
an Puff Profile Oelivery Indexing

The modeling of ter and nicotine delivery as a function of guff
number has in the past been accomplished by either a full accounting of the
individual puff quantities, or by a simple functional fit to cumulative
delivery curves (e.g. P. Waltz and M. Hausermann, Vienna study group paper,
CORESTA 1964). In the first case (an exact mathematical description)
manipulation of eight or mine pieces of data is required for each smoked
cagerette - 1.¢ an N-vecter of deliveries, where N # number of puffs in the
cigarette. Such fregnented dete is cunbersone for many purposes, including
sensory evaluation studies unere “total” cigarette responses are of interest.
The second method reduces the history of puff by puff delivery to a sample
functionel fora described by a feu parameters (tuo in the Waltz/Hauserman
model}. This approsch 15 naturally limited by the flexibility of the
functional form chosen.

In an effort to extend the ranga of delivery profiles uhich are
usefully described by @ simple functional form, we ere pursuing an approach
intermediote in effact to the tuo above. Our method {9 based upon an slgo-
cithn fron mathenatica! information theory, which attemals to predict the
most unbiased form of unknown probability distributions uhen limited
information is available. In our case the “unknown” probability distri-
butions ere simply puff by puff delivery profiles normalized to unity
(fractional delivery peofiles).

In beief the Maximum Entropy Formalism (HEF) is a consistent approach to
the problem of statistical inference, It attenpts to anauer the following
question: "Given limited information sbout an unknown probability distri~
bution, uhat 1s the most unbiased guess we can make about the distribution's
form using only the date at our disposal?” Uhen the date is in the form of
expectation values (avereges), the distribution of maximum entropy 1s found
straightforwardly by searching for the maximum value of a single mathematical
function (the entropy) subject to the given data constraints, i.e.

sl Stp] - Zadey] =o wy
here .
Stpl= “Zar: w)

terms in eqn. (1) represent data constraints (averages of the functions
f) imposed by @ Lagrange nvitiniier (4;) technique. Naturally, the nore

67@L 55805

