pe - alt

ticD
RR Interoffice Kemorandual ‘1287
as
Subject: Use of Schlatterer Apron Belt Date: dune 8, 1987
TSDRI
To: Mr. Steve Robb From: Dr. Rob Harrington

Below {s the evaluation of Apron Balt ISDRI9 manufactured by Schlatterer
(West Germany). Sctentific Affairs approves of the use of this belting
material for transporting tobacco at RIRT.

According to Sterling White, thts material {s composed ‘of polyethylene
terephthalate woven poly-dimethy1sfloxane.

Poly-dimethylsiloxane {a silicone material) is part of a large group of
organic ‘siloxane polymers with organic side chains. These polymers may be
linear or cyclic and can exist as liquids, solids or any form in betwes 7
range of oral LOsp’s {lethal dose to 50% of the popu atten) for comerct:
available silicone products is from 2 to 49 g/kg making silicone products es-
sentially non-toxic. The vapor pressure of silicones are low, therefore, they
do not present an inhalation hazard, Silicones are approved for use in resin-
ous and polymerte castings and components of paper and paperboard {n contact
with aqueous and fatty foods (21 CFR 175.300, 176.170). Pyrolysis products
include methane {CHq), carbon dioxide (CO), carbon monoxide {CO}, ethylene,
acetylene, dimethyl siloxane and $iloxanes.

Rethane is an explosive, physically inert gas. It acts as a simple as-
phyxtant at levels of above 85% in air. It has few biological effects at low
concentrations and 1s an tneffictent anesthetic agent. No threshold Jinit
value (TLV) has been set by the Anerican Conference of Governmental Industrial
Hygienists (ACGIH), therefore, a TLY of 1,000 ppm 1s recommended as for sint-
lar asphyxtants.

Carbon dioxide 1s an asphyxtant, but only at extremely high levels. Ex-
posure to 30,000 pon COz did not produce adverse biological effects when the
oxygen content in the atr was normal. Intoxication 1s seen at 50,000 ppm, and
at 100,000 ppm unconsciousness is produced within a few minutes. The TLV set
by the ACGIH 4s 5,000 ppm.

Carbon monoxide 1s an asphyxiant which binds to the hemoglobin molecule
and displaces oxygen. It 1s usually formed as a result of incomplete combus-
tion of flammable materials, and is a normal constituent of cigarette smoke,
At levels below 50 ppm, no short term adverse health effects are noted. At
high concentrations £0 can lead to cardiac and centra? nervous system effects,
coma and death. The ACGIH has set a TL¥ of 50 ppm.

Ole? 2290s

