Oetober 4, 1960

Dear Pete Little:

I have your amoteted contents of the Tagiuri report. I see
no difficulty in accepting 1t for circulation now.

T venenber thst you said that you considered ve were getting
our $5,000 worth. As for myself, I have ready eo many thousands of pages

of social science documents like thie in the 14 yesre I was on, and imstly

in an important position with Social Seienee Research Council, and have

seen so little of importance come out of them that I should prefer to vithold *
ny opinion of the value of the vork until I see whet comes out of it. One

the medical side 4+ appears very weeritical. Should it prove critical on

the sociopsychological side, there is no assurance that we could get anybody

to follow its recommendations. (At present, as 1s natural, it appears more
comprehensive than critical.)

Whet T should vieh is that Tegiuri would find some study in this
field which was of deep personal interest to him and of importance as an
Aten of research to the Harvard School of Business Administrations, and that
he vould take it on with our support, ‘he reason I say thie is because I
believe Tegiuri 1s a good social-paycholégical investigator who actually
gets results as so many psycho-social investigators do not. I have never yet
Deen convinced that he is a good “congyltant” for us in general in this field.
He has at no time shown geLtzer's or ability to pick a problen and
solve it bimself in the fiela. Until he has done this I prefer to back
Seltzer & Damon and their ilk. T wish we bad two or three psychologists who
gave promise of being as helpful as they.

Cancer. I suppose that the replicetion of cells in our bodies

or in vitro is not perfect, nor their differentiation from the original type
in the fertilized ege perfect. It seems to ite remarkable that the replication
and differentiation is as good as it 4s. Bub nonetheless, I vonder if there
are not daily cells which have to be destroyed because they do not fit, cells
which are malignant, etc., viich are ordinarily destroyed and rarely perpetuate
themselves to the condition of cancer. I have been told that in cancer
patients malignant celle circulate in the system but rarely set up uetasteses.
T have heard an estimate that not one malignant cell in 50,000 does so. Ts
there some way one could experinentally study this subject 1n and in
vitro? It might be a very importent basic contribution no matter what the
result turned out to be -- unless it has already been well done.

‘The Generel Systems Society Yearbook for 1959 (vol. 4) contains
on pp. 203 ff some 30 or 40 pages of really im critical discussion of vat we
have learned to date about psychological strese. This, T learn from the
psychology division of OR, is considered a fair and objective statement, the
best one known to them. I have read it carefully and judge that it is eo.
