| AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY

nigiorganization Memorandum Date: March 20, 1984

b Mm" DIVISION EXECUTEVES : DIVISION: AL
tee NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS

O pivision:

O NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS

From “Alan C. Davis

Tee

Vice President for Government Relations

‘St bject:
‘ee Hisuse of Garfinkel Quotation in R. J. Reynolds Ad

In the Yetest of a series of advertisements designed to create the impression
thet cigarettes may not be harmful to health, the R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
js guilty of misusing the name of Lawrence Gariinkel, ACS Vice President for
Epidemiology and Statistics/Director of Cancer Prevention.

He is quoted in the advertisement, which appeared this week in metropolitan
dailies znd national news weeklies, as saying that “passive smoking may be 2
political matter, but it is not a main issue in terms of health policy™.

Hr. Garfinkel considers this quotation to be “scandalous and hypocritical”
because it is taken out of context from its original source, and further dis
torted in meaning for purposes of the advertisement.

The sentence attributed to Nr. Garfinka? was lifted by Reynolds from an article
in a German medical publication, Hunchener Medizinische Wochenschrift. The

cortext cf the articte was solely relaiet to cancer, but as used in the ad the
quotation was applied by Reynolds to generalized disease.

The Garfinkel quotation was carefully separated from a sentence jnmediately

followi:, which completed the thought expressed in the sentence which appeared
in the «. "Attention should not_be diverted from the issue of cigarette smoke
by debst:- the potential cancer hazards of passive smoking’

rihe ad in which I'm quoted dops exactly what I warned against," Garfinkel says.
“It tries to divert attention from the hazards of smoking by switching to the
subject of nonsmoking”...

The German interview was published in September 1981. The Reynolds ad series
began in January of this year. Rev ortedly costing $7 million, the ad series

js themed ta the central idea of a public “debate” about the dangers of smoking,
with Reynolds taking the position that the relationship between smoking and dis-
ease has not yet been scientifically established. The American Cancer Society,
the American Lung Association and the American Heart Association have jointly
declared that any debate on the subject was settled in 1964 with issuance

of the first U.S. Surgeon General's Report on the Health Consequences of
Smoking, .

As for his attitude toward passive smoking, Mr. Garfinkel is the person who
drafted 4 resolution approved by the ACS Board of Directors in November 19B).
The resolution stated that passive smoking “is en irritating indo pol. >
jutant, and there is evidence that it is dangerous to people wit Ne .

di « that i breathing and causes strong allergic ri

ant £6705

