THE COMMONWEALTH ENGINEERING COMPANY OF OHIO
Industrial Research and Devalopmant

26 Jomary 1955 wisuinaren tore.
Washiogton, wariowas acer

Dr, Robert C, Hockatt.
Associate Scientific Director
Tobacco Intustry Research Comnittes
350 Fitth Avene

Bew York 1, Ne Ye

Dear Dr, Hockatts

Many thanks for the time you took last Wednesday,
January 19th, to outline the work beizg done by the Tobacco Industry
Research Committee. I hope we shall meet agsin soon, for I helieve

there is a lot that ean be done and dene quicily, to prevent the contimed
decline of this great industry.

Comtonmealth Engineering would Like to tackle some of the probleme :
jn bio~chemistry, of fermentation and analyses of the effects of the
insecticides used on the viseid tobacco leaves, Mrs Hiler, cur president,
who renenbers you quite pleasantly, believes re can do something about .
the paper situation, too, by rencving the benzpyrene by-product of
combustion of the alpha cellulose just in case, , and there are
other arees to be investigated.

Meanwhile, a good "psyche" research program to determine

the factors causing the rapid £311 away of youthfil and other neophyte
smokers, to retard the decline in current cigarette consumption,

Seems to be in order as a stop-gap, as wei discussed, Yow, as to

ny friend Dr, Jenes Mosel, I may have overlooked to tell you that he

is an smert on devising novel psychological tests. Ha has prepared
any for the Armed Foreea, sone being sdapted to IBM nachines. They

are valid, clever testa designed to pick out from groups whatever talents
and traita the services may need for specialized jobs, And he has

done others.

Dr, Mosel should be back frou Thalland, where he is testing
Propaganda, etc, for the Goverment, by tha first of February, You
ought to mest him. Also, you will find Dre Harry Older, president of
Paychological Res-arch Associatas here, quite interesting. ile has
sone excellent scientific talent, including physician-psychologists,
available to concentrate on knotty problems, amd is doing quite well
working with advertising agencies, and other firms, in this field,

If you find you are heading to “ashington, I/d like to
know, for nay be we can get together for lunch to explore further the
enigma of tobacao.

Cordially,
Kileoalin CO
Ghariel Py Beasley
washington

