"Yobacoo Company

YANGEY Wi, FORD, JR.
Executive Vice President

January 28, 1992 greew

‘Winston-Satem, NG. 27102
James Harrison 919-741-6088,
president

Vermont Retail Grocers Association
33 Lafayette street
Rutland, VI 05702

Dear Mr, Harrison:

T understand that the presidents of the Vermont affiliates of the
american Cancer Society and the American Heart Association, as well
as the Vermont Ling Association, have asked your uenbers to remove
Camel advertising from their stores. The sales force of R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco Co. and the owners and management of your member
stores have enjoyed a good working relationship through the years,
and we appreciate this opportunity to share our position on Cane)
and youth smoking issues raised by these organizations. :

First, contrary to what anti-smokers would have you believe, RJ.
Reynolds Tobacco Co. does not want youth to stoke. We do not
believe that smoking shoudd'be a part of growing up. Further, it
is not in our industry's best interest for them to suoke, because
whenever a young person smokes, it is the cigarette manufacturers
that are blamed -- not the parents, peers or lifestyle of the young
person, ‘The result is fnereased government restrictions on our
ability to communicate with adult smokers.

R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. and the tobacco industry have Jeng been
on record against youth smoking. That policy was formalized in a
1964 voluntary code that has bean revised and strengthened over the
years. You way recall seeing ads by the National Association ‘of
State Boards of Education and The Tobacco Institute in the early
‘80s offering free copies of the booklet “Helping Youth Decide.”
That booklet and versions that have followed have advised parents
how to improve communications with their children to discuss such
adult issues as smoking and how to resist peer pressure.

Numerous studies have been conducted to learn why kids begin
smoking. Consistently, young people cite the influence of friends
and family members. Many of the studies have analyzed smoking
rates in countries where tobacco advertising has been hanned or
severely restricted, to see if youth consumption or smoking
initiation declines. Analyses of those studies -- including

one by former Surgeon General C. Everett Koop -- indicate similar
results: the existence of cigarette advertising has not been shown
to increase consumption or smoking initiation.

“We work tor smokers.’

6bS9 BETIS
