Boke: Also sent xeprinea of itens in i
and KEIM dtens on “radioactive” suoke.

UNIVERSITY of PENNSYLVANIA

-PHILADELPHIA.19104___ _____— --

GIS) O98-It

The Wharton School CC Apeit 24, 1984
2 “6501

Denaiinent oF Starencs

br, Desmond J. Morris

Departments of Anthropology an@ Ethology
Wolfson College

university of Oxford

Wellington Square

oxford Ox1 25D

mngland

pear pr, Morrise

1 happened to see your recent television interview {Colusbie Broadcasting 5757
tea, New Fork) in whieh you Glecussed portions of your new bock, and reloted matters,

particularly intriguing to me were your observations on, for example, Sir Winston
chorehiil who, you indleated, “snoked tike # chioney," “drank like « fish.” and vas
seecente over-eoter. Also, a9 Z recell, you noted thar he perforosd much of his
Jase work at age 65 and later, and died in his SOx, I believe you slse nentioned,
pee oc core wonen aULhors, one of whom was in hax 208, and snoked about three Pecks
cr cggerettes par day. dave noticed that antivsacking s@vocates would rather of
oF ciserecch sEnomaloas” individuals, and explein them rhetorically but oot scientife
fcally. Perhaps they are not sc anomalous on alleged.

‘deveral colleagues and I have been interested in these “phenowens,” 7 have sent
to you separetely, reprints of two short papers, “Surgeons General's Reports on
seoting and Cancers Uses and Hisuse¢ of Statistics and of Science,” Public Health Pep.
3gis)s Alo-41a (1980), and “cigarette Snokings Biagple of Behaviorst Requisticl oF
Bee Laogical Hocmostaais?™ Public Health Rep. 9312}: 108-110 (1964). Tf tk ts 9 fee
aera tnitsal sucking 18 syopoomatic of @ physiological deficiency thar nicotine tends
seat athiate (blochenios2 ethology?), then thera could be serious problens for the
anti-smoking, and smcking-causality advoca|

roprinte of articles of yours that may provide enlightenment on this topic would
be greatly appreciated.

“y pave algo cent reprints of severs] short itens published in Shentcai_§, E0z

cave concerning heslth effects of low-level ionizing radiation, scientific mai=
SELERE (raplderiology, and on misuse of opinion. There svens to be = serious, ber
Sear eegi proien vhen many persons are frightened (7) concecning alleged health Fes
wesc etwrals ccologicedly realistic low levels of ionteing reBation, but are
sree or cd cs unconcerned about the serious ecological effects of Tacié rain’, and abe
coeeretroadar pollution of the oceans and fresh water streams ghd lakes. | sone per
coe eee eree nequate® traces of nataral radiation with Nagasski-Hizoshina and with
nuclear war, I have ancountered such persons.

er

Any xeprints and observations would be greatly appreciated.

“een CTR SP-FILES 019942

41019960:
