eet INSTITUTE OF PSYCHIATRY

WESC Leth anusry, 1983

“ We. Ed. Jacut,
ig Taceb, Nedinge? 4 Tinnegan.
(3 “Mew York, °

Mew anit’ 19020,

When we met te dow York eccuntly £ discussed wits you mame
‘esearch prapesa: wnich Ian putting Corvard in some more getnsl
mit is the deveropaent of soe work done by Rae & Reval] referred
SBELe on guge 107 of ote Cases une Elvects of Smuksag".  Uging data
rom witountrinny they found Righly atgnicicane screelacions petween
J, {centraveraton and vot male and female ong sancer, whl ir corresponding
io Goerelatione for gigarstee consumperes ard lung cancer were quite
yAneigeiticant.. for cancer of the erviny agatn the sorreintion wilh
ontraversion vas significant, thot for eigaruete consumption cnegniti~
Gf iS cunts torrelatiore berween antiety apd bung cancer were negative 1
PP both sesea. ery tach se Kigsan ana’ 1 haa Ecbed in ingiveduads.
MEL Te edad to ne that patenctatly studies of ints kind can be of
EcsVnlenormous value in clarifying the relationship Eetween smoking. person
Meaty ane lung canser. tne Aue @ NeCall sady hes several weaknosueay
PRD partionlarty we fur wt Gwe asaewcultural meauucunent of povearall ty
 As"conceened:” they used an identical quecticnnarre wa thes® moking Sure
otha the Aems mesyred the sage factor in all Wiftereat sounsioes,
Mint, ‘they did son currvet fer various inpurlant Cauuerny such ae
Rationa’ income, dzsrriboeion (variance) af national inoaney £22)
Furthemore the Timber of countries osee Cetght? uae ampli. as they
stand, therefore, che data are Suggestive, aut do McC BEOve anythins

gyPtl and I nave bean spending @ great deal of tars during the

pact few years tryitg Co pur Hi measurependt of eross-cul tur

Elfferences In personality on a prover selentsfle Cooling, and 7 vnelou

proafe of nn artisie we have written sumene' sing ome ce mis. You wit

. Bee that we would tow be able te curry out ecceytable compuralive
Btudhos of personality in cifferene coomteien, and combine tis with +

: Btatistioe of smocing, lung cancer ets. dn theos countries. nis
would be the bacin 76% my erolects

contd.

{

