DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH © HUMAN SERVICE:

Rockville MD 26857

Ms, Phyllis Braun-tein CR am 490,
National Association of State
Boards of Education
701 North Fairfax Street
Suite 340
Alexandria, Virginia 22319

Dear Ms. Braunstzin:

Lam writing to express my dismay at the way the National Association of State Boards
Lf Education (NASBE) has chosen to conduct its business. Iam referring to your acceptance
of money and sio,jans from the Tobacco Institute for the Booklet "Helping Youth Decide.”

Although this parnphlet is intended by the NASBE to inform and enlighten, I fear that
the exact opposite result will occur. Your booklet includes the standard Tobacco
Institute line tha: smoking is much too mature and grown-up for mere teenagers.

to “enjoy.” ‘The seduction of young peopie-is the very essence of survival for the Tobacco
Institute and the cigarette manufacturing industry, and they are pursuing this with

vigor, as your panphiet shows,

‘The association «f your organization with the Tobacco Institute further perpetuates

‘the implication tnat there is some "controversy" about the hazards of cigarette smoking.
There fs no controversy; every medical body in the worid which has made a statement
has come to the zonclusion that cigarette smoking is not only a ‘disabling and killing
Factor, but is the single most preventable cause of premature death ‘and disability
eCoaliies with a high prevalence of smoking. With the industry spending $1.5 billion
an direct advertising of im products, including popular teen-age magazines, it seems
Unnecessarily da-naging tw have implicit endorsement by your organization.

In sumroary, I strongly suggest that you reconsider your decision to distribute this .
pamphlet, and consider carefully future collaborations in light of the best interests
of your Constituency.

Sincerely yours,

fof C. Evorctt cor, ¥,

C. Everett Koop, M.D.
Surgeon General

cet Ms, Jolly Ann Davidson
President .
National, ‘sociation of State :
Boards of Education =

Ms. Dana A. Davis
Executive Director
American School Health Association

. TIMN 0053457

