INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM,

TO: Gory Burger DATE: December 1, 1989

FROM: Paul Nelson ¢ 2,0, Qupte

SUBJECT: ETS/Toxicology Study

After examining some of the protocols discussed at the last meeting, Paul Ayres and T
came to the conclusion that the experiments could not reasonably be performed as initially
proposed. However, several alternative collection and analysis programs were examined which may
permit toxicological analysis of ETS generated in the chamber.

First, I will discuss some of the problems with the experiment as suggested at the last
meeting, Daye Baker sold that when they sample sidestream smoke, 1.25 nin ace bubbled
through odéled-DMSO until the necessary concentrations of particulate matter have been
accumulated. This would usually take less than one hour of sampling. Ia order to gather 10 ml.
of a 10 mg/ta! solution of sidestream smoke, less than T00T of air would be sampled. However,
because ETS is s0 dilute, it would take 160,000 | of ETS at 1 mgim? in order to achieve the
same mass of ETS collected. At a relatively low sampling rate, it would essentially take forever
to collect enough ETS to analyze. At high flow rates, problems with solveat evaporation would
be a serious problem if such a large volume of air necded to be samapled, Additionally, 100 m?
of air al 30% RH contains ~500 ml HO. If the solveat system was cooled enough to minimize
evaporation, large volumes of water condensing into the bubbler could also be a problem. A third
problem could be that, at the bigh Bow rates necessary to collect such a large air sample, a
icant fraction of the volatile and semi-volatile components of ETS would be lost to
evaporation,

Tt-was also proposed that the experiment be performed starting immediately after smoking
and at a delay after smoking. With any practical protocol, smoking will probably have to be
contiauovs, and sampling will be taking place over the course of several hours. As a result, there
will probably be no difference between the samples taken at two different starting times.

‘As you know, ETS has been collected in the field by several investigators, In the
literature, four methods have generally been used. Of these, three may possibly be applicable to
sampling from the ETS chamber. One, which is the most commonly reported is also not practical,
and suffers from some potential problems.

‘Many Investigators have used very high flow rates to collect material on filter pads. Flow
rales of up to 66 m° of air through the filters have becn used. Although this is the most
common method for collecting ETS in the field, these set-ups are typically used in large rooms.
‘The chamber has a timiied volume, and sampling at this rate is aot practical.

Sampling through pads at much lower flow rales has also been performed. Husgafvel-
Porsianen ef af, (see attached) collected ETS on 37 mm filters at a flow rate of 22-32 Yimin. The
flow through each filter could be reduced even further by sampling through a series of filters

yo
pt
we
ihe

ZPLO £0005
