March 22, 1968

to: *SHr. E, J. Fackelman
FROM: Mr, J7D. Weber
SUBJECT: WEEKLY ACCOMPLISHMENTS

Declassification

Following are accomplishments for my group:

VANTAGE

e Issued meno to Brand which summarized results from an investigation of
VANTAGE FFLT NH’s net switching performance in 1986, when these parent
styles lost .12 share of smoker points to other FFLT NM styles. This net
Joss appears to have been largely driven by price and promotion pressures as
half of that loss vas to generic lights as well as to CANEL Lights 100’s and
WINSTON Lights 85/100’s, which both had several carton coupons/preniums
throughout 1986. “

« Conducted focus groups in Ballas, TX avong 18-34 competitors and franchise
smokers to qualitatively explore the appeal of three nev executions of the
“wigh Performance" campaign. Alternative copy lines were also explored. A
final report will be issued next week.

fe Issued report stmmarizing learning from two sets o£ YRP focus groups. . These
sessions were conducted to explore consumer reactions to alternative
introductory advertising strategies as vell as to several OOH headlines.
Based on learning from this qualitative research, three print and four OOH
executions have been submitted for quantitative testing.

caMBL mo

# Results from advertising testing of the new "Heroic CAMEL" campaign vere
presented to Mr. C. W. Fitzgerald. ‘the research indicated that the "Aerole
CAMEL” advertising significantly improves advertising conmunication versus
the previous Bob Beck advertising by adding a fun, sociel dimension to the
communication of independence and individualism. Additionally, the nev
advertising generated a very strong and positive emotional response among
nale target smokers at levels tvo to three times higher than Bob Beck.
Opinions tovard CAMEL based on the advertising improved significantly among
both male target smokers and CAMEL franchise smokers which suggests that
‘Heroie CANEL” is highly motivating to target smokers and serves to
positively reinforce brand loyalty among the franchise. The key area for
Future developnent indicated by the research are to Eocus on ways to enhance
the "eontenporary, younger adult orientation of the advertising.

« Provided research design to Brand Harketing for testing of Ad Vans as
possible supplenent to or replacement of continuity vehicles for out-ef-hone

advertising. If approved, this test vill be conducted in Detroit in early
Sune.

a
g
g
a
a
&
3
g

