Bey

a

NEW YORK MEDICAL COLLEGE

asic Sens Buaing
Valls, Now York 1595
(ots) 93.4028

DEPARTMENT OF CFL BIOLOGY AND ANATOMY

Harmon C, McAllister, Ph.D.

Research Director, The Council for te
Tobacco Research, U.3.A., Inc.

900 Third Avenue

New York, N.¥. 10022 .

Dear Dr. McAllister,

I am writing this letter to request research funding for a
project involving pulmonary emphysema. The long-term goal of the
proposed research is to understand the regulation of muscle
growth by B,-receptors and to identify agents, such as
Glenbuterel, ¢hat may be useful in preventing muscle wasting.
The purpose of this project is to explore the use of B,-receptor
agonists, such aa clenbuterol or terbutaline, to rétard the
atrophy of respiratory muscle fibers that accompanies chronic
pulmonary emphysema. Below is some background information, a
prief description of the project and a budget of requested funds.

Pulmonary emphysema alters thoracic geometry so that the
ability of the respiratory muscles to maintain ventilation is
impaired, particularly under conditions of increased oxygen

demand. | The lung hyperinflation that accompanies thie disease
decreases the resting length of the diaphraga resulting in
reduced contractile strength. In addition, associated increases

in airway resistance may also increase respiratory muscle work
load, Studies of a well defined animal model of emphysema show
that| the diaphragn, external oblique and transverse abdominis
muscles adapt to their altered environment with fast-twitch fiber
atrophy. Recent studies of human diaphragms fron emphysema
patients have found both slow and fast-twitch or selective fast~
twitch fiber atrophy. The observation that exercise can partially
prevent fast-twitch fiber atrophy indicates that impaired
respiratory muscle function in emphysema is in part due to a
muscle fiber atrophy caused by disuse.

Therapeutic methods for treating the underlying pathological
abnormalities of the lungs in emphysema are not available and
treatment centers on increasing oxygen delivery. These measures
include administration of B-agonists or  phosphodiesterase
inhibitors to reverse respiratory muscle fatigue and decrease

A Meta! Unioesty i the Cathaic Tatton

