@® CONFIDENTIAL .

INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

RoR

April 18, 198i
°

Subject: Weekly Highlights
R&D Technical Services

To: Dr. G. R. Di Marco

ITEM FOR WEEXLY BRIEF

© Cigarette Topacco Removal Device - A prototype device for removal of tobac-
co from finished cigarettes for tobacco analysis has been constructed and
is now under evaluation in the R&D Plant Lab. Previously, this work was
done by tediously handripping or blowing out the tobacco of each cigarette,
This device automates the procedure at 40-60 cigarettes per minute and ac—
selerates the entire tobacco analysis procedure. The concept was origi-
nated by the Plant Lab end then designed and built by Process Technology
and Development.

GENERAL ITEMS

@ TAGA 6000 Upgrade ~ A new software upgrade arrived from Sciex for the
TACK 6000" This. Week. It contains some new and improved quantitation fea-
tures useful for our ambient air monitoring. However, there are many bugs
in this version of the software, and we are in constant contact with Sclex
in an attempt to get. these programs to run.

We are constantly looking at new and improved techniques for monitor-
ing ambient air and calibrating the TAGA 6000 in real-time situations. We
have purchased a variety of what are called Vacuum Transducer Pumps froa a
company called Air-Vac. This company specializes in designing air-operated
vacuum pumps which use compressed air flow to produce veouum. The air flow
used is compatible with the air flow we want to use for calibrating and may
provide a useful sampling technique.

« Bureay of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF) Annual Audit ~ The Tax De-
partnent has notiffed us that the Bureau of ATF sill stert its annual audit
of our Company on April 17, 1984. If R&D becomes an audit point during the
four week audit time, the Tax Department will contact us. In previous
years AFT agents have always audited R&D.

© Cigarette Storage at Lentz (Greensboro) Facility - A mem was received from
the Tax Dopertnent advising us that ing Us that the ATF’ bond at. the Lentz (Greensboro)
fecility will expire October 31, 1984. No cigarette products will be al-
jowed there after the expiration date. Those who are storing or plan to

a

St Reyne Tobacee Compa.

gree EEDOS
