os/a1/98 14:28 BRAD 274 4068 @oo2/a0s

PHILIP MORRIS

(no, Box ned, ICHRUONE, VRGINIA zaRHTTLRPMONE (B06) 274-3000

May 18, 1987

Me. WiTTtam T. Bennett
President

Golden Salt Manufacturing Co.
P.G, Drawer 2332

207 East Main Street

Surhan, NC 27702

Dear Mr. Bennett:

Avery important aspect of our sipplier bustnets activity iz the conttaued
faprovenent of existing materials and development of naw materials. By its
errr Ents process {evolves contacts with many departaants within Philip
Foreis including Manufacturing, Quality Assurance, Research and Devel opnant,
Engtneoring, 2nd Manufacturiog Services, These contacts are essential to
eaelove the’ innovations te have benefited from through the years. However.
4% ix teportant to remember that Lmust_be forme lly
eadunted, and approval by 2p rria prior to comersial shipments regard-
e330)

ss oF mana sshemge ee. requested. by Pritip Harris personnsl_or salt
ightTated bya supplier.

Therefore, 1 am taking this opportunity Co rewind you and all suppl ters, chat
Philip Norris U.S.A. matertals specificatians forbid any vendar from making &

~The purpose of ths remu is to
P meditied waterlais fron entering our namifacturing process
whigh sould 1. ‘contain haraful ingredients, 2.) adversely affect product
Wesel /Sdors 3:} cause machinabtlity/pracesa problems. 4.) be lecowpatibls
cee thee satertals, or 5.) fail to function im accordance with Philip Horeis
raqui cemects.

We need to be particularly sensitive to these so-called “minor changes” which
past experience Nas taught us are the gost instdious matertals modi ficattons.
WIth regard to all materials supplied to Philip Worris U.S.A., you are required
to submit the details of any contemplated raw material (including new suppiters
tp you), process, and packaging changes to Prilip Morris as well as appropriate
tae proce Teatand testing, Ro alteration fs to be mide to PM1tp Horr!
direct watertals until and unless the Pu soakciad
Shithes aceoptance of the prapased change. Fatiura to obtain the proper:
endorsement through Purchasing prior to a ‘material change will autamatically
ender tener Cippiier to Tiabiiity ror aly costs and damages resulting fran tha

S8eersigoz

