2 . December 20, 1983

Tor: Mr. WP. whitlatch

PROM: Mr. W. R. Eddins

SUBJECT: "Event" Focus Group Topline

Four focus groups were conducted among younger adult smokers who
were regular patrons of “Event"~location convenience stores in
the Nashville market on December B and 9, 19B3. Topline obser-
vations are summarized below.

GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF RESPONDENTS

The respondents were remarkably homogeneous within sex groups,
sharing common interests, viewpoints and convenience store
shopping behavior. This may partially be due to the location of
the recrviting sites ~ generally in growing areas adjacent to
Nashville which were more “small-town” than "suburban" ~ and the
screening criteria that respondents be regular shoppers of that
store. The focus groups among women were held during the day so
consequently the female participants were non-working women, but
not generally mothers.

¢
CONVENIENCE STORE SHOPPING BEHAVIOR

Many of’ the male participants claimed to visit convenience stores
3-4 times per day, usually to purchase cigarettes, soft drinks,
beer and, less often, gasoline. The respondents preferred
convenience stores rather than supermarkets in order to avoid
long lines at checkout and because of the availability of single
eontainers of soft drinks and beer. They realized that the
convenience stores prices were generally higher than those in the
supermarkets,

In many cases, the trip was something of a social occasion -- a

chance to chat with other males such as employees or other
customers. This is not consistent with their professed desire to
save time by avoiding lines. Typically, the males estimated they
spend 15 minutes in the store but this is probably a gross
overstatement. (In virtually all research where people are asked
to estimate time spent waiting, the estimates are characterized
by extreme overstatement.)

As expected, the females generally claimed to use convenience
stores when they ran out of something (such as milk) and weren't
ready for a major shopping trip. Nevertheless, several of the
respondents claimed to visit these stores on a daily basis. It
would appear that these non-working women also use the conven-
jence store as a social occasion.

8212 s9c05

