DRAFT
Editor:

In a recent paper by Benowstz, et al. entitied "Reduced Tar,
Wicotine, and Carbon Monoxide Exposure When Smoking Ultralow- but Not
Low-Yield Cdgarettes™ (JAMA, July 11, 1986, 256:241-246), the authors
state that "tar exposure” may be assessed by urine mutagenicity,
Nedther the open literature (1,2,3) nor the authors’ oun data Support
this asasumption.

The authors state the following: between their two equivalent
groups of smokers, group 1 smokers tended to be heavier smokers; when
fhe two groups smoked their usual brands they smoked sindler numbers of
Gigarettes and had similar CO exposures; group | had bigher nicotine
exposures. (The tatio of mean group 1 to group 2 nicotine exposures is
Dpproximately 1.W:1), The authors also state that the smokers consumed
similar weights of tobacco, but how this was assessed is not stated.
Simply multiplying weight of tobacco per cigarette by number of
cigarettes per day 4s insufficient, owing to individual differences in
numbers, volumes and frequencies of puffs known to occur between
Smokers. Nevertheless, as the data in the authors’ Table 3 show, the
usual brands of the groups were, on average, nearly identical in
deliveries of FIC 'tar', FTC nicotine, CO and ‘tar' to nicotine ratio.
Thus one might expect that the “tar exposure” of group 1 smokers would
be the same as or higher than that of group 2 smokers. However, the
data show that mutagenic activity of group 2 saokers' urine (based on
both expressions of mutagenicity used by the authors) 1s approximately
twice that of group 1 smokers’ urine.

When the groups were switched to "high-yield" test cigarettes,
they smoked the same number of cigarettes per day and "consumed the
Same weight of tobacco". However, group 1 had higher nicotine and CO
exposures, Again, one might expect that group | smokers should have had
higher "tar exposures", but the data show that mutagenic activity in
group 2 smokers was twice that of group 1 smokers

The avthors' disclaimer that "Within subjects comparison 4s
necessary in comparing resuits of urinary mutagenicity testing because
of the intrinsic variability in such biologic assays" notwithstanding,
dt seems clear that the two groups of ostensibly equivalent smokers are
Somehow different, Diet 1s known to exert an overwhelming influence on
Urinary mutagenicity (4) and thus dietary differences between the two
groups in this study may be confounding the results. Although the
Suthors indicate that the subjects were hospitalized, they do not
Gisclose what, if any, control of diet was imposed.

The authors state that "comparison of intake measures while
smoking high-yield vs usual brand cigarettes showed similar patterns
for both groups”. Later they state. that "subjects smoked the high-yield
test cigarettes differently than their own brands". Closer examination
of the authors’ data does not clearly support either contention, It
should be noted that to cite the urine mutagenicity assay results
themselves in support of the contention that they are in fact valid

szgt sozos.

