TO.
FROM: Leonard Zahn Ww
SUBJECT: Second International Syaposiun on

Pulmonary Emphysema and Proteolysis,
Pasadena, CA, Jan. 16-16, 1986

Robert F. Gert

There have been tremendous gains in scientific knowledge about
pulnonary emphysema since the first symposium on the disease was
held in 1971. At the same tiae, and not surprisingly, the ad-
vances have raised further major questions that have yet to be
answered. (Pulmonary emphyseaa involves the breakdown of the al-
veolf, the tiny air sacs in the lungs, by enzyme degradation of
elastic tissue; the alveolar air spaces are enlarged, reducing
the surface area available for gas exchange. }

Studies in the last 15 years have le¢ to what 4s now clearly
the most popular hypothesis of causation for most cases of the
@isease: the inactivation by substances in cigarette smoke of the
so-called alpha-one protease inhibitor (alPI}, a protective
screen in the lung, and the consequent degradation of the a3-
veolar tissues by proteolytic enzymes.

The responsible agents in the smoke are believed by many to be
prigarily oxidants which, by inactivating alPL, tip the delicate
aiPi-protease balance the wrong way, enabling the elastase to
vreak its dawage. This imbasance, sone claia, causes perhaps
80-90% of the cases of emphysema that occur in a minority, per-
haps 15%, of mostly male smokers (the numbers vary according to
who's reporting). The remaining cases are those individuals who
are seriously deficient in alPI as a result of genetic factors.
There are an estimated 100,000 such Pi22 phenotype cases in the
United States; the genetic tendency for emphysema is s0 strong in
these cases that they develop the disease regardless °f anything
else.

These ané other points were brovght out at the symposium which
attracted some 150-175 scientists from the U.S. and abroad, nost-
ly fro Europe. Many of the attendees vere present or former.
Counc] for Tobacco Research grantees, and at least a dozen
persons from these classifications were on the progeas. It's fair
to say that a number of CTR grantees are among the handful of
scientists who've made (and are continuing to sake) major con-
tributions to emphysema research. The symposium was organized by
CHARLES MITIMAN Of the City of. Hope, Duarte, CA, who also organ-
ized the 1971 session. :Sponsora. included: several: drug. companies
which obviously are working on! drug treatments for euphysena and
other serious lung diseases. :

