Ve pth f
DOVER MEDICAL RESEARCH CENTER, INC.

OFFICE: 9 KINGS HIGHWAY, E., P.0. BOX 228
DOVER, DELAWARE
Phone: REdfield 42987

January 31, 1962

Robert 0, Hockett, Ph.D.

Associate Scientific Director
Tobacco Industry Research Committes
150 East Forty-second Street

New York 17, N. ¥y

Dear Dr, Hockett:

Enclosed find our Zormal application for support. The application form
provides only for one colum under heading of "Proposed Budget." I you read
‘through the long parsgraph under the heading of “Plan of Procedure,” you will
agree With me that it is quite impossible to finish all this within 2 year,

4s a matter of fact, I am somewhat doubtful that it could be finished even
within three years, Naturally, all of us who are engaged in research would like
te plan for several years ahead, It is impossible to hire personnel on an annual
basis unless there is to he some sembilance of permanency and prospoot for in~
creased remuneration. Thus, it would be greatly appreciated if the Research
Conmittes would find it expedient to approve the application for a three.year
tern,

The Research Laboratory here has changed considerably since your visit.
The place is crowded and buzaing. Now, as a matter of fact, we have great
difficulties in placing new equipment and we would have difficulties to accon—
wodate additional personnel. The tissue cuiture work is very slow and time
consuming. Obviously, one worker can only accomplish so much and no more. To
have two persons’ to study tissue cultures similltaneoushy requires doubling of
all the equipment. Also, while two persons are needed for planting and trans-
Plantation of tissues, four would be neaded if two doctors would work simil-
‘taneously.

X would very much like to extend an invitation not only to you but to other
members of the Tobacco Industry Resoarch Committee to visit our Laboratory.

I thank you very mech for the data on Dr. Divaker. I note that he is
interested in chemistry of tobacco and possibly in the carcinogenidtar of tobacco
derivatives. I do not know whether he would fit into our organization and have
to point out what I have said in @ preceding paragraph.

I am sending you a letter I received months ago from what may be a high
school student at Maunes, Ohio. I have answered that letter just very briefly
referring the writer to the offices of the Tobacco Industry Research Committes.

Very cordially yoprs,

0. DX POLLAK, MsDr, Ph.D,
OJP vu Executive Director
2 enel: Application fonn
letter

