nTC DIRECT

247500 Ta:en2 637 S05

PHILIP MORRIS

(20 PARI ARENUE, MEW YORK H.Y.(eO174H2 TELEPHONE cig eo.

lune 27, 1995

The Honorable Norman 0, Dicks
2467 Rayburn House Office Building
Waahington,'DC 20516-4706

Doar Reprssantative Dicks:

J am writing to you on behalf of Philip Morris U.S.A. in order to personally
advise you of a comprehensive voluntary pragram that wa launched today to prevent
cigarette saiés to minors. The battem ling of this program is simple: the best way to
keep kids away from cigarattes is to keep cigarettes away from kids.

We déliave this program, "Action Agsinst Access,” can make a difference.
Former U.S. Senator Werren B. Rudman of New Hampshira. a pertnar in the law firm
of Paul, Welse, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, hes agreed to serve as an independent
auditor of “Action Against Access.” Senator Rudman will establish a reporting
process To ensure that we ate accomplishing what we get out to do,

Philip Mortis U.S.A. hos always believed that minors should not smoke, nor
should thay Kava access ta cigarettes. Smoking id must ramsin ~ strictly an
adult choice. And wa know that the overwhelming majority of the public believer the
same thing. '

Over the years, wa have supported lagislation that has now been passed in all
BO statas to make it illagal to sell cigarettes to minors. Wa have also strongly
supported oni fundad effarts to encourage etallers to comply with state minimum
age laws,

We wilt continue to strengly support and fund these efforts. and do aven mare
in our effort to pravent cigarette sales to minors, “Action Against Acceus” addrasses
many of the most significant componants of the agenda proposed late last year by the
Institute of Madicine of the National Acadamy of Sciences in its racommendations on
youth access te cigerattes.

‘The exsential alements of “Action Againat Access” fall into two categoriaa:
those which Philip Morris can accomplish on its own and which we are implementing
immediately; and those which will require the cooperation of others, including ratailers,
state policy makers and law enforcement officials. Once ali of these initiatives are in
place, it should only be possibla to purchase cigarettes legally when proof of age can
be checked i parson.

MARLBORO CENSONAMAOOES WERIT VIRGINA SLMS PARLAMENTLIOHTS PAYERS SARATEGA CAMORIOGE ALPE MULTIFWTER

SSSHTEIPOS
