RR Interoffice Memorandun

Subject: Assessment of Triethylene Glycol Date: May 31, 1965
Diacetate Toxicity

To: Dr, Robert L. Suber Fram:

Dr. Randy Deskin

Trdethylene glycol diacetate (ethylene bis (oxyathylene) dlacetate), an
acetic acid ester of triethylene glycol is an odorless, clear liquid.
Triethylene glycol diacetate ('N@D) is under consideration for use as a plas—
ticizer in cigarette filter tow as it is partially water soluble and bonds
filter tow faster than triacetin, the presently used plasticizer (Eastman
Kodak Report, dune, 1967).

Several prechronic toxicity evaluations conducted in rats; guinea pigs,
and rabbits revealed that TGD possesses relatively low toxicity. An acute
oral toxicity study conducted in male rats revealed an oral LD50 of 13.8 ml/kg
{confidence interval 12.2 to 15.5 nd/kg). Deaths ocourred within 10 to 60
minutes after treatment. Clinical signs observed prior to death included
vasodilation, gasping, cyanosis, and prostration. No gross lesions were co-
served at necropsy; microscopic lesions omsisted of a slight increase in
hepatic mitosis. Oral administration of TSD (6.4 ml/kg ox 7000 mg/kg/day)
daily for 14 days failed to produce evidence of cumilative toxicity. Caution
shoulé be exercised in interpreting this data as 3 of 10 rate were Killed due
to error in gavage technique and 3 of 10 rats died prior to scheduled necrop-
sy. Mild to moderate hydropic degeneration of the liver was cbserved in the 4
surviving rats. All conclusions were based on data from 4 rats (Eastman Kodak
Report, June 1967).

‘wo short-term inhalation studies were conducted with TGD in rats, A
single dose intratracheal instillation study was conducted in a group of 6
rats. Fou of the 6 rats survived the experimental procedure and were sub—
jected to a gross and miccoscopic examination. ‘The trachea of 4 rats in-
Stillea the 16D had mild nonsuppurative tracheitis vhile 2 had massive aspira-
tion pneuronia. Of the 4 rats that survived the 14 day observation period, 2
had mild to moderate chronic murine pneumonitis, 1 had patchy pultonary edema
and localized interstitial suppurative pneumonitis; 1 rat did not exhibit pul=
monary lesions. The results of this study are tenuous for three reasons: 1)
the presence of the underlying chronic murine peunmnitis obscured the sig-
nificance of the findings, 2) the procedure used for the intratracheal instii-
lation resulted in surgical trauma and infection, and 3) an insufficient mum
ber of animals were used on study. A repeated exposure inhalation study was
conducted in rats in which groups of 6 male rate were exposed to vapors of TGD
{0.63 mg/L) or air, 6 hours per day, 5 days each week, for a total of 22-expo-
sures. Clinical signs included lacrimation in both the treated and air con-
trol groups; treated rate exhibited a yellow-tinged fur after the seventh ex-
posure day. Aninals exposed to TSO vapors exhibited a 5 percent decrease in
body weight over the exposure period compared to controls. Pre- and post-

20g ezoas
