ane

BRAND R&D

TO: Joe Inman

FROM: Tammie Greene
DATE: Septenber 29, 1989

RE: Analysis of the ULT Market

In response to your request for a profile of the ULT market, the
following information has been obtained:

© Although the ULT market is growing, the concerned segment of that
market is declining. See attached graph. This obviously
suggests that category growth is in "fringe" brands rather than
*numbers" brands such as NOW and Carlton. (NOW is still growing
but that growth slowed significantly in 1988.)

© Females represent 64% of the ULT market and 61% of the concerned
segment. 18 - 24 year olds only represent 5% of the ULT market
and 2% of the concerned segment. Snokers that are 35 and older
represent 73% of the ULT market and 83% of the concerned segnent.
Detailed demographics by age and sex are attached for the ULT
market and concerned segment. For comparison purposes, data for
total RIR and total Px markets are also included.

© For the year ending August 1989, 80% of 18 - 20 year old smokers
and 67% of 21 - 24 year old smokers clained Marlboro, Newport,
and CAMEL as their usual brands. (None of these brand families
contain ULT styles. I'm trying ta get information on the
denographics for Marlboro Ultra Lights, but it is still in test
market and information is sketchy.) NoW was claimed as usual
brand by only 0.2 - 0.3% of these smokers. Given accepted tenets
regarding first usual brand and resulting brand (family) loyalty,
these data would suggest that few people choose ULT brands as
first usual brands.

© ULT category and concerned segment switching data into and out
of the category/segment are not available. However, some
occasional usage business data is available about NOW and
Carlton. (See attached.) Obviously, there is a great deal of
occasional use between NOW and Carlton, but there is a fair
ammount of switching from other brand families as well. For
example, NOW draws a significant ammount of business from
Capri, Merit, MORE, Cambridge, VANTAGE, and generic/PLs. To
a lesser degree, it also draws from Benson & Hedges, DORAL, and
Virginia Slims.’ It is interesting to note that most of these
brand families contain ULT styles.

9898 sezts

OSL
