“i

ie

a

THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA MEDICAL CENTER

42ND AND DEWEY AVERUE
OMAHA, NEBRASKA 66105

March 2, 1977 a poate
Dr. Frederic W. Nordsiek K HAR 4 = (877
Agsaciate Research Director

The Council For Tobacco Research
iQ East 59th Street
New York, New York 10022

2 das oo bad Yes ae

Dear Dr. Nordstek:

The title of the grant I would like to submit ts "Assay for Determining
Exposure to Carcinogens by Measuring Carcinogen Antibodies".

Mice were immunized to the carcinogen benzo(a)pyrene by injection of
benzo(a)pyrene conjugated to horse serum albumin, It seemed reasonable
that mice with immunity to benzo(a)pyrene might be more resistant to the
carcinogen. Instead, it was found that the inmmized mice developed a
significantly Target number of tumors when treated with benzo(a)pyrene.
To further investigate this phenomenon, antibody to benzo(a)pyrene was
induced in rabbits and the antibody incubated with benzo(a)pyrene.
Benzo(a)pyrene was also incubated with normal rahbit serum. Mice
injected with benzo(a)pyrene plus normal rabbit serum had low levels of
tunor development; those with antibody had high numbers of tumors. Thus.
antibody seems to enhance tumor production rather than binder it. Nice
that had received unconjugated benzo(a)pyrene were exmained for benzo-
{a)pyrene antibodies. Al] of the mice had benzo(a)pyrene antibodies;
thase with tumors had the highest level. A small group of smokers were
assayed for antibody to benzo(a)pyrene and found to have significant titers
of antibody. The firm binding of benzo(a)pyrene to protein would suggest
that once bound it acts as a hapten to stimulate antibody synthesis.

It is hypothesized that individuals exposed to elevated levels of carcinogens
develop antibodies to the carcinogens. Those who develop significant titers
af antibody are the subjects who can be expected to develop cancer. To test.
this hypothesis, mice exposed to concentrations of renzoleboyrene ranging
from nontumorigenic to highly tumorigenic doses will be assayed for antibody
to benzo(a)pyrene. The titers of antibody will be correlated with tumor
development in the mice. The effects of antibody to benzo(a)pyrene on the
growth of benzo(a)pyrene transformed cells fn culture and in vivo will also
be studied, This data will be used to determine the value of antibody to
benzo(a)pyrene as a predictor of benzo(a)pyrene exposure and to correlate
the titer of antibody with tumor formatton. To test this hypothesis in the

to determine their level of antibody to the carcinogen.

Singerety je

Bary L/ Curtis, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor of Biochemistry

al human population a large grouo of smokers and nonsmokers will be screened

GLC/ste

‘THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA--LINGOLN THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA AT OMAHA

60263309
