IRE CONFIDENTIAL

Wo: Ken Beard pate: July 11, 1989

Subject: Sidestream Analysis Comparison From: A. B. Norman

I nave completed a review of the results of the comparison test of
the Analytical Services sidestream method with our implementation.
The sample averages and grand averages for each of the key measures
obtained in both labs are summarized in Table I. Among these
measures, the two labs were most different for the nicotine
delivery and the fraction of the total nicotine found in the
impinger trap (trap ratio). On average, the Analytical lab nicotine
was 17% low and trap ratio was 34% high. Averages for the other
measures did not differ by more than 8% between labs. T-test
results indicate that average differences between labs were not
statistically significant. These results are shown in Table II.
Regression analyses were made of the relationships of the measures
made in the two labs. These results, summarized in Table III,
indicate very high correlation between labs and relatively little
bias for the CO,, tar, nicotine and puff count measures (i.e., the
slopes were 1.0 +/- 10%). The nicotine curve showed a high
intercept value (21% of the average of Analytical lab results).
This offset appears to account for the low average relative to the
Product Design lab. The trap ratio measure from the Analytical lab
was biased low and the CO measurement was offset and biased low.
Plots of the data for each measurement are attached.

It appears that we have good agreement and high correlation between
jabs for the endpoint measurements. However, the low total
nicotine values found in the Analytical lab are of concern.
Additional analyses were wade of the component measures of the
nicotine and tar values to identify potential sources for the
discrepancies between the nicotine and trap ratio results. These
are summarized in Tables IV - VI and attached graphs.

A summary of the sample averages from the two labs (Tabie IV) shows
that pad and chimney measures from the Analytical lab are uniformly
lower than those from the Product Design lab. The differences for
the pad tax measures are small (4% on average) but substantial for
the chimney tar measures (25% on average). Since the chimney tar
represents a small fraction of the total, the total tar values do
not differ substantially between labs. The pad and chimney nicotine
values from the Analytical lab are uniformly lower as well, and the
average differences are large (19%, pad and 28% chimney). Four of
the six trap nicotine results from the Analytical lab are higher
but the averages from the labs are the same. T-tests indicate
(Table V) that the differences between averages for these measures
are not statistically significant.

a6to sozos
