Corscn, For Tonacco Rusnaccn-US.A., 1
OU TIMED AWEXU
NEW YORK, x.¥, 10022

April 29, 1988

tilly R. Martin, Ph.D.
Dept, of Pharmacology & Toxicology
Medical College of Virginia
Virginis Commonwealth University
P.O, Box 613, MCV Station
Richmond, VA 23298-0613
Re: Grant No, 2130R1

eae Dr. Martis
‘The Council for Tobacco Research, USA, Inc. is pleased to award yau a renewal grant
in the amount of $65,065.00 for the period from July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1989 for the
study proposed in your application ‘Characterization of Centrat Nicotine Receptors.” {t is
understood that this grant is made subject to acceptance by institutional authorities.

The award is made without guarantee of support beyond June 30, 1989, even though
we recognize that your original application proposed a study extending one year beyond that
date. Therefore, if by November 30, 1988 you submit to us a formal renewal application,
including a report of your progress to date, your request will receive consideration.

Your attontion is called to the enclosed “Important Procedural {nformation for
Grantces?. Please fill in the attached *Notice of Research Project” and return it to me, Drs.
Donald Ford, Associste Research Director, and Harmon McAllister, Research Director, will
seeve as your primary contact with our scientific staff on matters concerning your grant.
Plouse consult the staff as questions or problems acise, and keep us informed aboul the
progress of your study.

As Principal Investigator, you should know that CTR recovers unexpended balances at
the end of each grant year. We suggest that you personally keep an accurate record of
expenditures and commitments to assure that you agrce with your institution’s of ficial
financial statement at the end of the grant year. Please note that year-end deficits cannot be
cocovered from CTR, even from funds awarded in a subscquent year. Finally, please be
aware that our failure to receive timely antual financial stalements from your grants office
‘will stop Curther grant payments, Appropriate forms will be seat to your financial officer ac
the end of the grant year. Administrative problems are relatively rare and we hope that this
statement of our Fiscal policies will obviate any possible misunderstandings.

Cordially,

Rovert F. Gerteabach

Enels.
cc: Mr. Herbert B, Chermside

REGmjs

bec: Auditor, LP, RO'K, Monitor, sis,

