"40,020
Ke Reypoatit— Interoffice Memorandum

Date: October 28, 1992
To: Dr. J. Don deBethizy

From: J. H. Robinson

Subject: Human Performance Laboratory Capital Project

Recent dlscusstone with Dr. Jim Seuith Physlology/Pharmacology - BGSM) concerning RIRT
‘establishing a human performance/pharmacology laboratory at the Medical Schoo! have evoked 2 very
positive response. In addition to the obvious opportunities for furthering collaborative siudies between
RIRY and BGSM, establishing this laboratory would offer the following benefits:

© This tab would have application across a wide spectrum of R&D projects, Improved studies on both
‘cognitive und motor function Im tamans could be coudneted in the following areas: the ‘benefits of
nicotine’, the collaborative effort with JTZ aad the study of olcotine analogs, the performance
effects of nleotine absorbed from cigarettes, gum, patches, or nasal sprays. In addition, this lab
‘could be used to compare the performance effects of nicotine absorbed from cigarettes or new
generation products (XB, XDU).

¢ Conducting studies in a clinical setting at BGSM offers significant advantages In obtaining selective
populations of mubjects and adoninistering test compounds {important for comparisons of the
mentalimotor effects of drags]. A Federally approved Interaal Review Board for buroan subjects
already exists, Sach studies would be directly relevant to the nlcotine ‘addiction’ ame,

‘+ State of the art studies walang PET scanning and MRI techniques could be conducted In the future.
‘These techniques would clearly place us at the leading edge of research in ¢he boman pharmacology
of nicotine,

© Through my adjanct appointment a3 Assoctate Professor of Physlology, post-doctoral as well as
Graduate student researchers could be recrulted to conduct research In the lab, expanding the
umber of stodles te this wren,

© BGSM In in the process of recruiting a bnman behavioral pharmacologht to fill a pressing need in
‘this area, To date, the lack of « human performance Inboratory kas served as a significant negative
Jn the recrulting process. Establishing this lab would eanble BGSM to recruit a quality candidate
and alto enable us 10 provide Supt in the selection process to ennure a complementary ‘fit' that will,
expand the capabilities of ovr lab and offer new opportunitles for collaborations.

Establishing « Capital Project seems to be the most appropriate course to follow In this instance,
‘Dr. Smilth has maggested that an account be established at BGSM In my ame, All moneys for
equipment purchased for the lab would come from thls account. BGSM would provide mutually
‘agreeable space for the lab which, at this time, ia still undetermined. BGSM woutd continue to recruit a
top-level behavioral pharmacologlst who would complement and expand the capabittties of the exiating.
lab, Start-up fonds for this person would be provided by BGSM. Finally, as we have done In the past,
equipment purchased for this project would remalu the property of RIRF, with the euderstanding that
‘when the project terminates, It would probably be donated to BGSM.

s
S
a
3
s
8
Fa
&

r:

Estimated Costs: $400,000.00 + 10% Indirect Costs,

