Subject:

ICOSI Mecting, Winston-Salem, Date: July 27, 2978
2nd/ard August, 1978

Mr. Wm. D. Nobbs From: Frank G, Colby

I very much appreciate your sending me the letter by
C. M, Stewart Lockhart of BAT England, dated duly 19.

T would like to comment on severa? of the points on
the Agenda.

Agenda Point (4x), Determine jt
Working

I attach for reference (Attachment 1), the statement Srom
our NBRG Working Party roport to which Mr, Lockhurt refers,
During the Tremshutte? (lamburg) meeting on April 5-G, 1979,

I volunteered as our assignment - without, however, advertising
this - experiments, nearly 211 of which we were obliged to do
anyway, i.¢. regardless of ICOSI, because I also yepresent RJR
on the U. 8. Industry research planning group on environmental
tobacco smoke. Most of this work has been completed and a report
is being typed. We have made determinations, under laboratory
conditions, of nicotine, carbon monoxide, and "tar", During the
next two weeks we are planning to make these determinations in
public places, such as restaurants, etc., here in Winston-Salem,

The only RJR Rescarch Department work which only relates to
ICOSI is our sampling for nitrosamines, These samples will be
analyzed by an outside laboratory, avoiding, therefore, our purchase
of the very expensive equipment needed, RJR (i.e, F.G.C.) and other
members represented on the HBRG wil? review the progress on their
assignments, agreed upon in April, which implement my original
suggestion of a ‘division of labor, rather than each company duplicat-
ing all the vork,as was the original intent of other members of the
MBRG. We will meet in England on September 2-3 and, hopefully, have
& consensus report ready for submitting to the ICOSI principals
meeting on September 12-23,

I suggest that on "Point &(a)" of Agenda Issue ix we favor
that "testing" be done under JCOSI sponsorship via the MBRG, but
that the expenses be absorbed by each of the companies, provided
that all companies agree to have their R&D departments participate.
If the latter should not be the case, a cost sharing scheme would
have to be worked out.

4ESe GZ00S

Vv

