Ws Tloyd Lockany / FILE
FROM: Rich Guarino MSS

SUBJECT: Quick Reference Specifications

DATE: July 21, 1986

I have reviewed the sample that Kay Adams and Carl Mathews have submitted
to me as a replica of what their maaufacturing counterparts would like to
see on @ consolidated specification d{splay screen for Making & Packing
and Filter Making supervisors, respectively. In summary, thetr requests
are implementable. We estimate that it would cost approximately 4

‘ogrammer-weekS to develop, test, document and implement in production,
Wowever, there are trade-offs. 1 have documented the trade-offs for your
consideration,

Background ?

MSS hae individual on-Wine displays for aach cype of product, process or
material with a fairly eimple browsing technique to either access the
initial specification or branch from one specification ¢o another related
specification. Also, MSS has a direct access technique which allows the
user to obtain the desired specification If the precise fdentity fe known.

Furthermore, MSS has numerous methods for retrieving detail or
consolidated specification information {n hard copy format.

Hanufacturing’s Concerns

As you read these comments please consfder my recommendation relative to
the perceived and real MSS-related problems within the production
enysronnent that wore addreesed in a prior memo to you.

Manufacturing has three concerns regarding the current design:

1, It takes too long to log inte MSs

This is a valid criticien, However, there ie very little we ean do to
shorten it other than promoting the one ehort cut which we have
documented that saves two steps, The various layers of security are
required due to the sensitive nature of the information entrusted to
MSS, We have followed standard system security polictes in the design
of MSS and do not feel justified in eliminating any just to make the
Jog on sequence shorter.

The actual problem stems from the need to log off of che Labor
Reporting System to log into the Manufacturing Standarde Syetem, ot
vice versa. Terminal contention is the real issue.

Tees Gatts

