Tne Councit For Topacco RESEARCH-U.S.A.
SUCCESSOR TO THE
‘TOBACCO INDUSTRY RESEARCH COMMETTES
033 THIRD AVENUE
NEW YOUK. N.Y. 10017

March 5, 1955

Philip Cooper, M.D.

Chief of Surgical Services
Veterans Administration Hospital
130 Went Kingsbridge Road

Bronx 68, New York

Dear Doctor Cooper!

In carrying out its comission to sponsor scientific studies
relating to tobacco use and hua health, the Scientific Advisory Boord
‘to The Council for Tobacco Resnexch has found it very helpful to hold
informal roundtable conferences 2 topics related to the research program.
‘A mumber of such conferences have been held on a wide variety of topics.
They have provided opportunity for prelininery off-the-record report of
findings by recipients of grants-in-aid, for comparison of techniques and
experiences, for exchange of constructive suggestions, and for delinestion
of gaps in existing knowledge. Atteniance is generally kept below twenty
persons couprised of grant recipients in closely related fields, selected
guests, members of The Council staff end members of its Scientific Advisory
Board.

At the present time several investigators sponsored by this
Council are engaged in studies involving the inhalation of tobacco euoke
Yy experimental animals, Such investigation involves many probless such 25
the following:

1. Methods for machine production of cigarette snoke, under
euch conditions and control as to assure that its chemical
end physical properties will correspond as closely a5
possibie to those of auoke as ichaled normally by humans.

2. Methods and equipment for exposing email animis to smoke
nbsletion under conditions that will resesble to the
maxim degree those attained in normal bumn smoking.

3s Methods for measuring and monitoring the amounts of emcke
actually coming into contact with lung eurfaces in such
animals.

We are, accordingly, planning to hold an all-day conference
on Techniques for Exnosure of Experimental Animals to Cigarette Smoke
Susition oo Aprtl 23, 1905 in the conference room of the Council et
‘B35 Third Avenue, New York 1OOL7 {28th floor}, The meeting will begin at
9:30 A.M. and be continued throughout the day, vith @ group luncheon about
joan, "We hope each participant will be prepared to present sone descrip-
tion of his ovn work as it uy relate to the topic, and to yerticipete in
the Giseussions. Blackbosrd and slide projectors vill be availabl

