Tae Counen. For Tonacco Resrance-U.S.A., Ive.
200 THIRD AVENUE
NEW TORK. N.¥. 10022

ARMON &. MoALILOTES, PH.D. March 21, 1991
Dr. Vibeke Cleaver

Stanford University Medical Center

Div of Hematology S161

Stanford CA

Dear Dr. Cleaver:

Thank you for your expression of interest ia our program of research support. fam
pleased to enclose a statement describing policies of The Council and a recent Annual Report
that lists grants currently supported. Our application procedure entails a mandatory two-step
process. First, a short preliminary. ipauiry is sent to members of the Executive Committee of
our Scientific Advisory Board who evaluate it for scientific merit and for "fit" into The
Council's current multidisciplinary biomedical research program. if the Committee's review
vote is positive, you will be provided with forms and instructions for completing 4 ull
application. Ia the event you receive an award, The Council will consider up to two annual
renewals on the basis of progress reports and materials submitted with renewal applications,
The Coungil operates two application cycles per year and accepts preliminary inguiries
year-round; the date of receipt by CTR determines the cycle im which the proposal is evaluated.
+ Fail cycle - any inquiry received between March 16 and September I5-aad encouraged
by the Executive Committce may be submitted as a full application by: November 30,
= Spring cycle - inquiries received between September 16 and March 15 and encouraged by
the Committee may be submitted 2s full applications by May 31:

Cycle Preliminary Inquiry Deadline for Notification Activation
AccivalatCTR Full Application Date Date
Spring Mar (6 - Sep 15 Nov 30 ‘Early May Tal
Fall Sep 16 - Mar {5 May 31 Early Oct Jani

The format for the preliminary application is as follows:

1. A three page narrative summary, This should contain a synopsis of the proposed project
including relevaat background material, its present status and goals, a brief outline of the
research and its impact. The summary should end with a sentence indicating ths
anticipated duration of the project (one, two or three years) and a single figure estimate
of the anticipated annual direct costs of the study as proposed. Please rote that the three
page limit is absolute; no attachment pages containing photographs, charts or literature
Citations will be accented. If you judge such materials are critical for the review of the
proposal, they must be accommodated within the three page limétation.
Two page curricula vitae and scientific bibliographies of the applicant and principal
professional level collaborators (the NIH Format is quite acceptable). Again, the page
limit is strictly enforced; only two pages per investigator are forwarded to the Committee.
‘One copy tach of any two or three publications, abstracts or manuscripts that are closely
related to the project for which funding is being sought.

Sincerely,

Khimelnetlldptlate-

‘Harmon McAilister
Encl

HCM/mia

