March 25, 1982

‘
TO J. W. Goss ,
R. L. Willard
PROM: 5. C. Nassar
RE: ATG TOPLINE RESULTS (MDD #82-22201/02/03)

This reports topline results from the ATG cork prototype test and
the cork versus white tipping mall placement test, These results
were presented to L. W. Hall and J. Johnston on March 17, with
recommendations to introduce 5mg. candidate #3415B and #3416D
using white tipping.

BACKGROUND

ATG is an 85mm and 100mm menthol line extensionvof VANTAGE Ultra
Lights, scheduled to go down-the-street nationally on July 5.

Because cork tipping was being seriously considered for VUL
Non-Menthol at the time these prototypes were developed, they
Were all. made up for testing with cork rather ‘than white tipping.
Since they were originally intended to be used for blend learning
only, this test was seen. as a good chance to assess the perfor-
mance of cork tipped prototypes, In the meantime, however, ATG's
introduction was moved up to July, meaning that there would only
be time for a single wave of testing. ‘Thus, these blend learning
prototypes became actual candidates for ATG. Limited to a single
Prototype test, it was desirable to maximize the number of dif-
ferent blends tested, making it impossible to test cork and white
tipped counterparts. The tipping issue, therefore, was addressed
using a separate test.

One 85mm and 100mm prototype was tested versus their white tipped
counterparts among ATG's target smoker group -- 3-10mg, menthol
smokers aged 25-49. Since the cork prototype testing was using
all available M/A/R/C target smokers, these four products were
placed with smokers obtained via mall intercept. Tarqet-omakers
were further bri out by those yho said they would actually
consider trying a menthol style of™ his
ended up~being about ha enabled

bi ‘Las\the
«It had been decided going inta the test that the tipping
color for ATG would be determined based on the preference of
these “potential smokers". ‘The test was also to help determine
the effects of white tipping on a prototpye tested only in cork
tipping.

4

Lone nzzos

}

