GERALD N, WOGAN OX

125 Claflin Street
Beimont, MA 02178

January 21, 1988

Dr, A, Wallace Hayes
B,J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
Winston-Salem, N.C. 27102

Dear Wally:

Iam writing in connection with my review of the product Alpha project which is
currently in progress. I have now had the opportunity of reviewing in detail che information
gent to me subsequent to the oral presentation made to me earlier by you and your colleagues,
and am writing to provide you with an interim summary of my reactions on the program.

At the outset, I want to say that I found the approach to the design and evaluation of
the product to have been built on an imaginative and logical scientific basis that takes advantage
Of the most current and sophisticated technical and experimental methods available for the
purpose. The program to date has produced an impressive array of information which, taken 2s
a whole, supports the product concept and can be expected to provide extensive scientific
characterization of issues of safety entailed in the projected use of the product. 1 have been
particularly impressed by the detailed planning with which the program of evaluation has beea
designed and executed, es well as the care and thoroughness with which data have been
generated and interpreted.

Io the attached interim report, 1 have briefly summarized points that have arisen in the
course of my review of several aspects of the program. I have concentrated these mainly on the
chemical characerization work together with biological assays of genotoxicity and inhalation
toxicology studies. Inasmuch as additional studies are currently in progress in these areas as
well as in humans, these comments are intended to summarize interim reactions as well as to
stimulate further “discussion concerning both the information being generated and its
interpretation.

At our forthcoming meeting of subsequently, I lock forward to learning about the
current status of several studies that were either in progress or contemplated at the time of our
earlier communications. These include bioassays for genotoxicity of tater versions of Alpha,
and in particular in vivo tests including SCE, CA and micronuclei in mouse bone marrow cells.
‘Also, there was very little information on IDS assays among the data provided so far, and F am
Tooking forward to Jearning what has been dose jn that area. Jn the animal bioassay area, &
repeat study in hamsters with more recent product and different exposure regimens was
proposed at the time of our meeting, Im the human studies area, I particularly took forward to
learning about progress in the study being conducted by Vessell at Hershey as well as the
urinary excretion of mutagens.

At the same time, 1 would also like fo present some suggestions for additional studies
that I feel could provide quite valuable additional data pertinent to the evaluation of Alp!
One such topic concerns markers of genotoxic exposures that can be detected in humans using
existing methodology. These include measurments of fevels of hemoglobin adducts formed by
‘4-aminobiphenyl aod NNK, and also chromosomal changes in lymphocytes that have recently
been reported to be particularly responsive to cigarette smoking. 1 believe that well designed
studies taking advantage of these very recent developments could be very useful in

zyse $1905

