GALLAHER LIMITED

VIRGINIA HOUSE + YORK STREET + BELFAST - BTIS JE

seb June, 1986

es Dake Besokey,
veaoet tnprovenest and Development Gorordineter,
feertcan Tobacco Co-y

Bre bs Division,

Pics Box 899, Hopewell,

Viegtnts 22860,

Use

Dear He, Beickey,

Geoff age han pasted on your letter of Sth April, 1986 aad asked we to write to
you with details of ay planned vialt in Septeubor.

I will be in Anerics during the week connencing Bth Septenber for several
VAelts/acettage that onek ané then will be attending the Internation Tobacco
Fehibition the following week. It would be convenient to be with you oa Nonday
and Tuesday the Sth and 9th September 1f this {4 euleable,

Hy nain interest 46 to primary processiag particulerly tobacco expansion, I
have been reaponatbie for developing our fleah drying process ming water to
enpand tobacco and would like to Bae your ova pilot plant and get au update on
Gevelopaent work. Geoff hau oles euggaated a vielt to the Durham expansion
plant se well. We axe contiaalng to use our CO, expansion plente which T wae
Jovolved im developing ond I would be facecested 4m sceing yout Freon process.
If there ie time 1t may be poeaible to include « general visit rauod the
factory.

1 aa also responotble for our devalopaent work on ventilation coutrol. We ate
extremely interested in developing the full cover glueing technique and T vould
Like to get an update on your exparience of using it in production aad alao see
it fu uses We have recently ctarred vork on laser ventilation with pre
perforated tipping papers and algo purchased a free standing laser wait to
Seeess possible on machine ventilation control. I would be tetercsted ta
Steoneetng any work you aight have done.

Perhaps you would let we kno tn dua course Lf the 8th and 9th Septenber are
bultable dates. I have arranged other visite in eho Richwond area for later
that week and it would be conventent co travel to either Hopeell or Duchas
fret of ali.

I pm looking forward to vieLting vith you.

Tours etneerely,

ATXOZ 0206943

