RR Interof£fice Wemorandum

Subject: ‘Thoughts on Use of an Index of Dates July 18, 1986
Biological Activity

To: tr. Bill Rice Pron: Dr. Randy Deskin

This is a follow-up to our discussion last week regarding tha development
of an index of biological activity that could be applied to Project RAN. In
an attempt to quantitate and correlate changes in Anes activity, SCE, ete a
way is needed to ascribe biological significance to the observed changes.
Ideally, it would be nice if a 50 percent decreasa in Anes activity would be
accompanied by a similar decrease in SCE or chromosomal aberrations. After
reading Ors. J. 2, Hayes and D, J, Doolittle’s trip report to the Swedish
‘Tobacco Company, this may be unlikely to occur. Hence, you could have a
scenario where Anes goes dom 50 percent and SCE goes up or dow 20 percent.

An alternate method to consider might be to use an approach similar to
the “Weighted Contribution Method" proposed by fave Brusick for a battery of
genetic toxicology tests (Brusick, D., Rrinciples of Genetic Toxicology,
pe. 9 - 105), ‘The Weighted Contribution Method assigns a quantitative score
for each assay and weights the appropriateness of a response as being positive
or negative in the absence or presence of metabolic activation (see attached
example). ‘The tests proposed by Brusick and the weight assigned to each
response way be inappropriate for en evaluation of CSC, but I feel that a
similar approach will aid in quantifying responses in your proaren. for
example, you may wish to consider weighting responess in Ames, SCE,
chromosomal aberrations, cytotoxicity, (perhaps cell cycle kinetics from SCE
and chromosomal aberrations assays}, and irritation (i.e., Alaite RDgg}. ‘this
could provide you with the information to say that an IR4P has an index of 100
and a new prototype has an index of 75.

As we discussed, this is only a rough idea that needs the input of others
at ROR, It may be advisable to schedule an off-site meeting with the people
dn the Genetic Toxicology group; the Inhalation group might also be included.
It may be desirable to have the input of someone like Brusick.

BEZT Sozos
