. 2 ~
. ¥ The Children’s Hospital S qe

Cardiac Care Centerocober 27, 1999

1086 Gants Aan

Mate Rovere, Me
het Peder

AdeH and with

Kids Noad A tds’ Hospital

Mr. Geoftrey Bible
Chairman & CEO

Philip Morris Companies
120 Park Avenue

New York, New York 10017

Dear Mr. Bible:

After decades of denial, your company has now acknawledged the overwhelming
scientific and medical consensus that cigarette smoking causes lung cancer,
heart disease and ather serious iinesses. and is addictive, Your public admission
brings with it the responsibilty far action ~ net just words — to begin to reduce the
more than 400,000 annual deaths from tobacco in the U.S.

Philip Morris also must take responsibilty for the fact that more American
children, both boys and girs, smoke your Martboro brand than all ather cigarette
brands combined, and that Mariboro is the number one cigarette among children
worldwide. This is not a coincidence. Your marketing strongly influences children
to begin to smoke and in brand selection. Of the more than 3,000 American
children who become regular smokers every day, at least 1,800 of them are
smoking Marlboro.

Unless you undertake the following important actions to reduce the toll of
tobacco, your statements can only be seen as a public relations gesture rather
than meaningful corporate change.

End your apposition ta the reasonable regulation of tobacco products by the
Food and Drug Administration. and drop your lawsuit against FDA. Since you
now admit thal your products ara addictive and experts agree they cause
serious disease, they should not escape the same level of government
oversight as drugs, medical devices and other products regulated by the
FDA. itis also time to end the smokescreen that FDA regulation of tobacco
-will inevitably lead to ban on cigarette sales to adults. The FDA has never
advacated or supported a ban on cigarettes, nor have we.

‘+ Stop all marketing practices that impact children. Eliminate the use of human

characters in your advertising, including the Marbore Cowboy, and western
agery. Curb your pervasive in-store advertising in convenience stores and
other retait outlets frequented by children and in publications with high youth
readership, And end sponsorships of public events that can be altended by
children or are broadcast on television,

‘+ Take action to reduce the ease with which kids ilegally obtain cigarettes by
germitting your products te be sold only in stores that place cigarettes behind
the counter, and eliminate vending machine, Internet and direct mail sales.

9S08S0¢20z
