Tobacco Company

310-741-5000
Winston-Salem. N.C. 27402

February 26, 1996

“Let the spin-off begin.”

So began 2 Winston-Satem Journal editorial on February 22, when it endorsed an immediate
off of Nabisco, to save tobacco from the “sharks.”

Instead, you might have said it more direcly: “Pay ransom to the ‘greenmailers’ and maybe the
tobacco company will be spared. Give them what they want and they'll leave you alone.” With
every good intention, thet appears 10 be what the Journal is advocating. But ‘sharks’, as you
described Messrs. LeBow and leah, are rarely satisfied with a morsel; instead they consume
their victims, Just Jook at these raiders' past victims: TWA, Westem Union, and others, all ended
in bankruptcy’ but the hungry sharks were well-fed.

Pay the ransom to the raiders? Do something that the Journal acknowledges may hurt
sharcholders in order to tempt the raiders to go away? As the leader of our tobacco business and
a director of RJR Nabisco, I won't do that, I can’t do that.

Regarding the spin-off, RIR Nabixco’s board of directors has stated its commitment to separating
food and tobacco, but only at the right time. Before I address why now is not the right time, let
me make it clear that what this raid i all about has little to do with spinning off Nabisco. Ithas
Jot to do with LeBow and Ieahn attempting to unload the struggling Liggett and Myers Tobacco
Company on BUR.

Me, LeBow controts the parent company (Brooke Group) of Liggett and Myers, Last year Mr.
LeBow approached FUR Nabisco's management about buying out Liggett, thereby enabling him
pay his debt to Mr, Icahn and make a handsome profit as well. We turned ‘him down.

‘There was no value to RUR in acquiring Liggett. It has nothing to offer us in the marketplace, So
‘Messrs, LeBow and Icahn decided to acquire RIR, Nabisco stock in hopes of forcing FUR to buy
Liggett and turn contral of RIR’s successful cash flow over to them and their hand-picked board
of directors. When pencil is put to paper, Mr. Jeahn stands to receive $50 million from the deal;
Mr. LeBow millions of dollars —- if they can pull this off.

So, from their perspective, this isn’t a simple question of whether RJR and Nabisco will split.

“We work for smokers.

ZeBI 9zBTS

