ne THE CoUNCIL ror Tonacco RESEARCH-U.S.A., INC.

SUPPORTING BIOMEDICAL INVESTIGATION 900 TareD AVENUE
New York, N¥ 10022

cor serena,

ARTHUR D. E1anNueno, PH.D. April 15, 1992
SKnvowtatt Resse Brntcvor
Dr. Sam Kakar
Department of Paysiology & Biophysics
University of Alabama
Basic Health Science Bldg. 834
Birmingham, AL 35294

Dear Dr. Kakar:

‘Thank you for your expression of interest in our program of esearch support. I am
pleased to enclose a statement describing policies of The Council and a recent Anaual Report
that lists grants currently supported. Our application procedure entaile a mandatary two-step
process, First, a short preliminary inquiry is sent to members of the Executive Committee of
our Scientific Advisory Board who evaluate it for scientific merit and for "fit" into The
Council’s current multidisciplinary biomedical research program, if the Committee’s review
vote is positive, you wiil be provided with forms and instructions for completing a full
application, In the event you receive an award, The Council will consider up to two annual
renewals on the basis of progress reports and materials submitted with renewal applications.

The Councit operates two application cyctes per year and accepts preliminary inquiries
year-round; the date of receipt by CTR determines the cycle in which the proposal is evaluated.

= Spring cycle - any inquiry received between February 15 and August 14 and encouraged
by the Executive Committee may be submitted as a full application by November 30.

- Fall cycle - inquirics received between August 15 and February 14 and encouraged by
the Committee may be submitted as ful! applications by May 31:

Cycle Preliminary Inquiry Deadline for Notification Activation
Arrival at CTR Fuil Application Date Date
Spring Feb 15 - Aug 14 Nov 30 Early May Tel 1
Fall Aug 15 - Feb 14 May 31 Early Oct Jan}

The format for the preliminary application is as follows:

1, A three page narrative summary. This should contain a synopsis of the proposed project
including relevant background material, its present status and goals, a brief outline of the
research and its impact. The summary should end with a sentence indicating the
anticipated duration of the project (one, two or three years) and a single Figure estimate
of the anticipated annual direct costs of the study 2s proposed. Please note that the three
page limit is absolute: no attachment pages containing photographs, charts or literature
citations will be accepted. If you judge such materials are critical for the review of the
proposal, they must be accommodated within the three page limitation.

2. Two page curricula vitae and scientific bibliographies of the applicant and principal
professional level coltaborators (the NIH format is quite acceptable). Again, the page
limit is strictly enforced; only two pages per investigator are forwarded to the Committee.

One copy each of any two or three publications, abstracts or manuscripts that are closely
related to the project for which funding is being sought.

Enclosures Arthur D, Eisenberg,
Abe/mla

