CICARRTTE LABELING FY

itteo eemeduded (hat
oko ist einall fo
€ ud Henle, p.
ral, Putho Health Service,
lueation, and Wellsre, in is appearance
efore the Tobacco Subcommittee, House Cunnnitios on Agriculture,
on January 29, 1964, stat .
“He need to know much more ebout the substances jn tobacco
sehich produce the hsalth hazards, Until’ we known
fa this area, we will be ha in our offoris to remove
Inzard, | Te is dificult to design a method of removing something if
oF exausple, the Known substances in
inbgceo sxcke cam account fob oly 2 sinall portion of its cancer
prodoeing power, Wa bava a real eles as to wal this in toteeo
Sraoke tliat jflnences coronary artery diease—it deed i does.
‘e view of the uncertainties in the present stale of knoscledge,{h
part of the proposed labeling requirenicots wiich rclalaa lo tar and
Bivona wanld oot saeguard consumers, Ow the contrary, centuniers

nok

10 identily

redler
ork i being coordinated with the Department of lenth, Nveation,
‘nd Wolfares nti there fs wore explicit Meatieaon apd snore
conplole understanding uf the prinapal convliluents which reste
ivallt probes, lgalaten equisng the baling for euch conwtisenta
slould not be exacfod,

‘The Darevu of the Budget advises that there is n0 objection Lo the,
presentation ofthis report ram thn standpuinto the admit stations
Page,

Sincerely yours,

Cuanuts 8, Menrus, Acting Seercary.

Dueraicr or Convsstn, March 25, $086

Toy Wangs O. Maoncron, :

alznan, Commitee ne Come, .
TS Bente, Woalingn, 0 :

Dear Srxaron Maoxvsox: Further reference is ade to your
Ie dated Jenoey 24, 9g xcopy of 8 88, fo ola

Labeling of egaeites, apd for other pespicse

“Tw bil Fequltes thet t Gareten clap? best th follwing wate.
ments “Waring: Continual cguette eméking may bs hesetdous 10
Feuginalh Tiel repute te evga ed nt
elds pr egerette o the egarete
Fh Gomtdonese de infor thee ton Feder rade Commis.
shon and other Federal apcney have given a grent deel of stay b>
Ue problera encomprsse | i the bi. The Carian feel hab
5.847, Both Congress, ould be more flectivein'pratecling the public
Honllt nee it provides for regiltiin of advertiving es well as labels
and in aon procides for enforeruent Uy the Bederel Trade ome

19 gooperation wilh the Secretary of Health, Haucaten, and

Wetter. The Cominicionere recommend the enachment of 8 Aa,
Hemera

sagen cetas
