oe
[Siok Sruvy (Rcur
ape" President ~

GT 91873,

Sag aapteaber 21, 7973 |

Joes
Moai aeabers of the :
Beer Sacks Study Group °~3, 854 i

Deor Corteague, “pity syd ts bet

STAAL rca: SALT tee WPA

Nn October 1973 180 will discuss ogain snoking steud:
i comection vith the standardization of snoking aechin

:foetiengih 46 part of the enoking standords, for the buitlength +
Pref filter cigarettes the COREST stouderd gives three reguletions 7)!
“i: (mindzum tuttlength 23 mm or filter plvs 8 mm, or if this is not

TEES (ogaibie tipping plus 3 ma). 150 vould like &0 simplify these
“8. Pies. GOBEgEA is* tree to propose mew stangerd which meets this

“Oi Daring our lest nesting in Rice September 13, 1973 we discussed
‘ghe probleu of modifying the stendard of buttlength for the
analytical snoxing of cigarettes on sucking machines.
‘Bat it wes not posaible to coue to any fins] decision during
‘the meeting. on On 2 ao
Az IO wants an answer {yon CORESTA as oon as possible we can't
ortpore. ine prublen until he next gesting of ike ‘pucke Study Group
‘Btptenber 1974. 1 therefore send to you the questiouneixe No. 1
nd Trask you to return the filled in questionnaire ss speeay a5»
eoible.— but not later then February 1, 197% ~ to the secretary
e Uiilienson. Be vill svamarize your aiewers and report this to
wyou and the Scientific Commision.
Before you start to susver the questions given in the 7
Ri questiomnaire {fo. 1 I want, to draw your attention to the following
ADS Givunents which have been brought up already by aeverel members —5
ilar sof the group et our last meetiag in Rice: -+

“rhe requietion on buttlength, as given in the CORESTA standard, >
Tot *Scesent recopaized. end used nesrly world wide. ‘The nove
be ot rere acy citeration of thie atanderd would cause that
SE 262 Miner etinaera temas become uncertain wp well e.g.
Rietisn’of ports purt volume, puff frequency eve, becouse
Serene crablon’ cbuid be devanbed wath corresponding axgunent
Hbsis tUiSFdSenas ‘espectolig for the bustienged would reise
Bey fron girricateies fa comsaring the reoulta of analytical
satel ae den tkose of Zonmer Jeans.” yy ger cule

Lies vith kindest regords

wR, Elmenhorst)

