‘Mix CouNnciL FoR Tonacco Reeranon- U.S.A. INC.

Anes #6

sonerese IORI AE INCRE ATION S90 THIN ANN

Apris (8, 1996

Kiran K. Chaday M.A,
Department of Biochemistry
UMDNI-RWIMS
875 Hoes Lane
Piscataway, NI 08854
Re: Grant No, 3632R2
Dear Dr. Chada:

‘The Council for Tobacco Research ~ U.S.A., Ine. (CTR), is pleased to awatd you a renewal
cant in the amount of $50,000.00, including indirect costs, for the period from July 1, 1996
‘through June 30, 1997 for the proposed study: "Bxtracelluler Mateix Degradation in the Lung."
Wis undersenod dat this grant is made subject to acceptance by institutional eulhoriti
many applications to CTR indicate partiat of complete overlap with subr
agencies, If the latter result in awards, we should be notified prampily so that we ean negotiate
an appropriste adjustment of our award

Sinco this award will conclude the theoe years originally programmed for the project, it is
considered terminal for the project and a comprehensive fina) report is expected after completion
and reprints of any curren or future papers cesulling fram research supported by the award Must
tue submitted,

Please review the enclosed "Important Procedural Information for Grantees.” Please fill in
the attached “Notice of Research Project” and return it to me. Cuntact Drs. Donald Ford or
Arthur Eisenberg of our scientific staff on matters concetning your grant and keep us informed
about the progress of your study.

‘The enclosed statement of “Financial Requirements” indicates that the Council eecovers
Junexpended annual balances over $1,000 and that year end deficits cannot be recovered from,
CTR, even from funds awarded in a subsequent year. Moreover, out failuce to receive timely
nancial statements from your grants office will stop further payments. Appropriate forms wil
bbe sent to your financial officer at the end of the grant year. Administrative problems are
relatively rare and we hope that this will obviate any possible rolsunderstandings.

Tames F, Glenn, M.D.

‘01 Juldh Neubaver, PLD,
JE Grmewenstesorer

Roe: Auditors, ReK, Le, Pile
4/M, Monitors

40019901
