FROM: Paul Ayres hh
Betsy Read ork &

Bave Bombickpy4-

SUBJECT: Schedule for CSET Exposures to Evaluate Variability

On June 17 it was decided by Ors, Ayres, Bombick, Doolittle, and Mosberg that CSET
exposures fo 1R4F mainstraam smoke would be conducted during July and August to
evaluate the reproducibility and variability of the biological response. it was agreed at
that time that data from six replicates would be used to allow for development of a
slatisticaly based experimental design.

Mainstream cigarette smake (1R4F) exposures for evaluation of cytotoxicity, using the
neutral red assay, and genotoxicity, using the sister chromatid exchange assay have
been scheduled. This exposure schedule will result in collection of six replicates of
Sata as we had originally planned. Data from these exposures should be available for
presentation about 9-30-1993,

Mr. Walt Morgan, the R&D statistician experienced in analysis of in vitro data using
the Ames and SCE assays, has informed us that the original six replicates may not
yield enough data to provide a firm foundation on which to quantify and fully
understand the variability of the response. While six runs may provide sufficient data
to determine whether or not there is significant variability, they do not provide a good
confidence level, and will probably not provide sufficient information to quantify the
variability. His suggestion was that a minimum of 10 might be required, while as many
as 30 repticates would be ideal to describe the variability.

With the SCE assay, Wall also recommended that we continue with our exposure
Tegimen of running one cigarette type at 4 concentrations per day rather than several
cigarette types at a single concentration within one day. Our flask sample size and
number of cells scored per flask are adequate as currently conducted.

The initial approach is to evatuate the data from six replicates. If these data do not
Provide enough information to support an adequate understanding of the variability,
‘additional exposures will have to be scheduled.

xc: Jammy T. Avalos
wiattachment: Schedule for CSET Exposures

