Public Health Policy Implications of Perceived Ris!

or
and Joann Luoto “ppuenteh eae
oo asc

It is pechaps axiomatic that public health policy is heavily
dependent upon a base of scientific evidence. The landmark 1964
Report of the Advisory Committee to the Surgeon General of the
Public Realth Service On Smoking and Healen was a compréhensive
Teview of the scientific literature published since the earliest
reports in the early 1950s, and followed earlier statements by the
Public Health Service as early as 1956 linking cigarette smoking and
lung cancer. It is less obvious, however, that policy questions may
determine future research direction. For example, in 1967 the
Public Health Service took the position that “the preponderance of
scientific evidence strongly suggests that the lower the tar and
nicotin content of cigarette smoke, the less harmful would be the
effect." A recent review of the scientific evidence published since
that policy statement revealed a dearth of studies on the endpoints
of disease relative to the type of cigarette product used, and the
implications of other possible changes in behavior which might
affect the actual dose of smoke constituents to the smoker. That
group of scientists assisted in making government policy by
identifying multiple research projects to scientifically examine the

o impact of changes that have occurred in cecent decades in both
cigarette product and smoker behavior.

That public health policy pronouncements affect the general
populace is evident; the marked decline in the prevalence of smoking
among males over twenty years, and the more recent decline of
Smoking among women reflects this. The most recent data available +
from the National Health Interview Sucvey reveals that from 1978 to /
1980, adult women quit smoking in greater numbers and proportion
than'aie males. ‘The finding chat in 1978 more than 90¢ of persons
believed cigarette smoking to be hazardous to your health is -
countered, however, by the fact that approximately $4,000,000
Americans continue to use these products. This apparent
contradiction is puzzling. It may well reflect the failure of the --r:
public health sector to adequately convey to the individual a
ranking by relative individual hazard of the risks posed by
different events. The fragmented presentation by the public press
of ceports that x is associated with disease y, or that people who
do z have a higher rate of disease q, leaves the public with littie, “F
if Sny, cational framework in which to make an informed decision.

If coffee use is associated with pancreatic cancer, and smoking
causes lung cancer, can the average citizen assess the relative
healt# hazacd posed to himself of the two behaviors? Further, 1s
the individual capable of assessing the multiple risks posed by &
single behavior against a specific single disease risk associated
with another behavior? The mechanism by which such an integration
of relative cisks for the consumer might be attained is not clear;

C" the diversification and, in some cases, fractionation, of the public
health, scientific, and journalistic organizations complicates such
an appraisal.

6ele Extes

. ee

