FRI 14:98 Fax 202 740 190 DEVRIDGEADIAMOND
Si Wank 897 ano cakes

saraoy

ova
‘Go02008

sosseree

DRAFT
10/28/98

October XX, 1998

‘The Monerable William J. Clinton
President of the Uniced Stance
‘The White House

‘Washington, DC 20500

Re: Global Barriers to Trade Arising from the inckision of "Products Thersof” In the Pending
Biorafety Protocal

Dear Mr. President:

Jam waiting on behalf of the more than 135 member companies of the Grocery Manufacturets of
‘America (GMA) ta cxptest our deep concarn with the recent direction of negotiations on the
Proposed Blowfery Protocel ta the ULN. Convention on Blological Diversity.

GMA is the workds larger: association of foad, beverage and consumer product companiet.

‘With US. sales of more than $430 bililan, GMA members employ more then 2.5 million workers
in all 50 states, Led by & board of 44 Chief Executive Officers, GMA speaks for food end
‘consumer products mamufycturers at the state, federal and intemational levels

Specifically, GMA 1s concerned that the recent efforts of come governments to expand the scope
of the Protocol beyond the safe managemart of living genetically modified orgeninns (LMOs) to
include products derived from biotechnology (referred to in the Protocal at "products thercoP”)
poses a significant threat tn global trade In food, beverages and conwumer praducts. Although
ULS. representatives to these negotiations ure supportive af GMA's position, we write today to atk
you 19 mabilize your Cabinet and the World Trade Organization (WTO) on this important tesue.

As you are aware, ongoing advances in the held of blotechnology continue to enhance our
country’s abllity to produce s bountiful, safe and affordable food supply, Many food, beverage
and cansumer products produced in the UL. are now derived from crops that are genctically
modified to Improve, for exaruple, thelr nutritional value, chelf life and ability to fight off Insects,
‘World trade in products derived from biotechnology and U.S, access to key eurkets is, however,
threatened by the proposed international legal regime being contemplazed under the Biosafety.
Protocol. As currently drafted, the Protocol would impote significant burdens en international
trade in products that present no threat ro biologteal diversity.

P6L8L52202
