‘Pu C

NCH. For Tonaccoe Restancum U.S.A. INC.
eer

LY, 12

December 17, 1971

Dr. B. Bhagat
Department of Vhysiolovy

St. Louis University "chook of Medicine
102 South Grand Boulevard

St, Louis, Mirsouri G310h

Dear Doctor Bhopat:

Upon the reeenmendation of the ScionLifie Advirovy Board to the
Couneil For Tobacco Kesverch, a renewal. grant (#588¢-R1) has been approved
an the anount of $29,072 for a period of one year. It will be effective
on January 1, 1972 in accordance vith your instructions,

Xt is understood thet this cron 4s made subjcct to acceptance by
the university authorities under the terms and conditions that were agreed
upon previously.

‘The present grant completes the two ycar plan originally activated
as of Februery 1, 19/1 and is therefore regarded as the finol year for thet
project.

A Final comprehensive report of the project will. be expected
following termination of the prercnt project. in preparing such reports,
we W621. appreciate your using the Sormet’ sho on the enclosed sample
and providing us with 25 eopics. We would alto appreciate being advised
of any published papers reculting from the pront, whenaver they may be
scheduled lo oppenr, and receiving 15 reprints of each vien available.

We will appreciate having, a final accounting for funds of the
current year's grant as of the project anniversary, Appropriate forms
wi)1 be forwarded to your eccomting office at that time. Any neoznl Lica
valance resaining a: 07 that dete will be applicd erainst the new budect
to reduce the totel of snds to be furnishes, Vhen the project terminates,
@ finel accounting should be rendered and any residual funds returned to
the Counes). unless seme other disposition ie authorizes by the Board
following your specific proposal in writing.

The Council For Yobaceo Kerearch will make an announcement of this
award in the Annual Keport of the Scientifle Dircetor ond in press releascs
according to established practice.

Any questions of scientific mature thet my arise concerning

the project should be referred to Nm, Robert C, Hockett, Assocs ute
Setentific Director, und we will mpreeinte your keeping hin abreast of
your pronress through informal ecwmmientions. Any aduinietrative problems
Should be referred to the Executive Viee President,

