Tobaces Company

September 3, 1999 GARY 7. BURGER, O.V.M,

Ecocutve Vice President

Faces ang Oevelapment
Bowman Gray Techical Coter
Robert DeLorento, MD., PhD. Hirson soi Roenae
ph Aer
Chairman of the Board Facainle 396-761-807
Star Tobacco and Pharmaceuticals, Ic. Era burgerg@ ico

108 Market Street
Petersburg, VA 23803

Dear Dr. DeLorenzo:

‘As you know, there are a number of compounds with carcinogens potential found in eigaretie smoke. One group
‘of these that has received a great deal of attention in recent years front sone members ofthe health community is
{tobacco specific nitrosamines (TSNAs). Despite this attention, from what we see in the scientific literature and
from what we have observed in our own laboratories, there is no indication that removal of TSNAs from tobacco
‘reduces the toxicity of sigarctte smoke. Nevertheless, we believe thal reducing TSNAs in tobacco and tobacco
smoke is an appropriate goal. Modifying current farmer curing practice sppears to be the Key to achieving this
geal for flue-cured tobacco. I know Star has their own process to lower mittosamines, but wanted to lel you know
‘whal we are doing here at R.J. Reynolds Tabacoo Company.

‘We have developed an zpproach to reduce nitrosemines in Aue cured tobacco. We are presenting our work atthe
‘TSRC in Montreal on September 15, 1999. We are also making similar presentations atthe CORESTA meeting
‘nTnasbruck, Austria (September 7, 1999) and China (October 12, 1999). [believe Stax may be presenting rome
cof their work al somte of these meetings.

Thave attached to this letter alist of some of the more important publications and reviews concerning the toxicity
‘of TSNAs (our own here in Reynolds, as well as by researchers outside of Reynolds}, Ifyou are aware of any
important publications pertinent to this subject that {have overlooked, would appreciate your making us aware
‘ofthem. Iwould also encourage your company, as well as other in the Industry, to publish eny work on TSNAz
in their own laborstories, I believe that is what Star is going to do based on your Web site, We think itis
‘important that everyone in the Industry remain as well informed as possible regerding the toxicity profile of
‘TSNAS and activities regarding lowering TSNAs,

Given the current stale of scienlfic knowledge, we believe it would be inappropriate to conclude thal cigarettes
‘with low nitrasanvines result in any meaningful reduction in the health risks of stacking. However, taking step to
reduce the levels of TSNAs in U.S, tobacco, we believe, isan sppropriate goal.

Sincerely,

Gay
GTB
xc: Me, Jonnie Williams

Attachment
“We work tor smokers’

egay 6Ltzs

