Draft: L19/01
Peun Holsenbeck POY

By now you have heart (hat we will be asking stockholders 10 approve changing the
name of Philip Moreis Companies Inc. to Newco Inc. at our next Annual Stockholders
Meeting in Apri? 2002,

As Geoff Bible pointed out, one of the primary reasons we are secking to change our
ame is (0 ¢larify ourvorperutethc identity of our corporate parent and make il clearer
‘when reference is being made to of our tobacco companies,

ip Morris USA and Philip Morris International will retain their names, as will Kraft
Foods-tne. and Miller Brewing Company. However, if the name of Philip Morris
Companies Inc. is changed, the nanes of Philip Moris Management Corp. and Philip
Mortis Capital Corp will also change.

{m preparation for the vote at the 2002 Annual Meeting, we will distribute a proxy
statement to stockholders beginning in mid-March. The proxy slalement will explacn the
Feasons for the proposed name change and ask stockholders to retum their “proxy”
indicating their approval ot disapproval of the proposal. The Proxies will be tallied and
the results announced at the Amual Meeting on April 26, 2002 [Newspaper ad says
April 28, Which is correet?f.

ICstockholders approve the name change, the company will ren file an amendment to its
articles of incorporation with the Secretary of the Commonwealth of Virginia that
changes its name, The name change becomes “official” upon the fling of this
amendment. Until then, Philip Morris Compattes Ine., Philip Morcis Management Corp,
and Philip Morsis Capital Corp. swst-contisue-te aparuteundarwill retain their current
names,

However, in order to ensure a smooth transition in the event that the name is approved, an
implementation team and guidebook is being developed to help affected companies with
the redesign of stationery, brochures, signage, Intemet and intranet sites and the like.
‘You will be leaming more about these efforts in the near future,

As the chairman said when he announged the proposed name, “This action represents a
significant milestone for the Company.” This is clearly an exciting lime and | want to
thank you in advance for your cooperation and support as we move forward on this
historic effort,

Sincerely,

Penn Holsenbeck.

2086780745
