g g Tobacco Company

May 31, 1996

910-741-5000
Winston-Salem, N.C. 27102

Dear Fellow RIR Team Members:
By now, you've heard I am leaving RJ. Reynolds.

‘Until 1 tried putting pen to paper, I didn't realize how difficult it would be to write this nate of
farewell to you. So many thoughts flooded my mind, I didn't know where to start. I apent two.
hours staring at my writing pad yesterday with no result, Today, I'm ready.

Fira, } want you to know how proud 1 am to have been part of the RR Team for twelve years,
especially the last seven whea I returned 0s CEO. No one could ask for or hope for finer poople
to work with than you. No one could ask for more determined, dedicated, loyal people than you.
‘No leader could ever ask for more trust and faith then you have ahown in me, And, of course, no
‘one could ask for more challenge and opportunity than we have seen together at RJR.

Second, I want to tell you that our company, in my opinion, is on the road to success. We have
two strong CEO's, Andy Schindler and Piecre de Labouchers, who will lead our tobacco
companies well in the years ahead, Currently, both tobacco compenies are ahead of expectations
for 1996. Domestic tobacco has had stable full price market sbare for maay mons, and Carael
and Doral continue to be the fastest growing full-price and savings brands, respectively, in the
US. RR International is showing volume gains in the 20% range with every indication that this
trend will continue, At the same time, significantly increased marketing resources are being
directed to key intemational opportunity markets to further spur our growth. A bold new Camel
Lights offering is off toa great start in Wesiera Europe. Eclipse (Hi-C intemationally), which has
been my dream these last seven years, is now a reality. And is off to an excellent start in
Chattanooga, Augsburg, Germany, and Stockholm, Sweden. There are many other good ideas in
the works to keep our momentum going, I'm proud of where we are and where we ean go from
here.

‘Now, I want to tell you about our poopie. I've always tried to lead by example, but importantly,
Tye leamed by the examples set by many af you. One of the highlights of my life was being a
participant in the bus tip to Washington. It was your idea. I was foltowing the leadership of
Dottie, Odell, Marta and others, and I learned lot that day by watching you. If ] have shown
passion and commitment in defending our company and the rights of smokers, its a reflection of
the passion and commitment I saw in all of you.

+more

"We work for smokers’

e5s@ Sets

