October 2001
Dear Tobacco Company,

‘am writing to you as a grower of burley tobacco in Kentucky. As you know, there is 2
lot of talk these days about a tobacco buyout and FDA regulation. Much attention bas
‘been given to these issuns because of the tobacco grower anu bealth conmunity proposal
called the Presidemt’s Tobacco Commission report. Tobacco farmers were active in the
input of this report which suggests strong recommendations for a good foundation. Its
‘the most comprehensive, efficient, thought-out plan that would make the best impacts on
my tobaceo community and rural economy. Though the Commission report suggests an
‘crease in the federal excise tax on cigarettes, growers aud leadership are willing to
explore other avenves of finding. Nevertheless, this is the plan that I support.

‘As you are well aware, the Commission report eslls for 2 mandatory buyout of tobacco
quota while maintaining the price support program. The program is absolutely necessary
for the profitability and survival of thousands of tobacco growers. Growers want a
aandatory buyout that feitly compensates quota owners and growers for their investment
in tobacco. The Commission's proposal would restructure the program and put the quots
in the bands of the growers. This would eliminate lease prices and inaprove efficiency.
‘The total cost for this buyout would be $16.3billion I zsk that you consider the
Commission's buyout proposal as the foundation of a fair buyout.

Secondly, the Commission recommends responsible FDA regulation of tobacon products,
‘You will probably agree with me that FDA regulation is inevitable. Consumer safety is @
top priority in Amacrica. tis only a matter of time before tobacco products are regulated.
support FDA regulation that will establish fair and equitable mechanisins over the
manufacture, sale, marketing, distribution, and labeling of tobacco products with the
‘USDA and EPA retaining authority 10 set safety standards governing tobacco farms and
tobaceo production. FDA regulation would not be on the farm,

‘Another reason! like the Commission's FDA regulation propose! is that a tobacco
‘growers advisory committee would be established by Congress to oversce and advise the
FDA on all tobacco regulation. With this kind of FDA regulation, growers will have an
‘active and integral part of establishing the rules of regulation and seeing that FDA does
not come on the farm, Without an advisory comminee of farmers, govermment wil set ts
own rules,

‘These are challenging times with many options being discussed. As a grower of the finest
‘ourlcy leaf that sets the gold standard ip the world, I urge you to work with Us as growers,
‘with our tobacco organizations and leadership, and with the health groups to develop the
‘best buyout and FDA proposal possible. Join us in supporting the recommendations of
the President's Tobacco Commission, Together we can make the best changes for the
tobacco industry.

OZLLpzseoz
