RE:

RR Inneroffice Memorandum

Component. Technology Division FROM: J. P. Wheeler
Manager
STATUS REPORT FOR DECEMBER, 1992 DATE: JANUARY 20, 1983

PACKAGING TECHNOLOGY

)

MARKETING-RELATED PROJECTS
Retail 12's Cigarette Package

Due te problems encountered with vending the current 12's soft package,
Marketing has requested a high pricrity effort be devcted to developing a
package which can be used in the three major types of vending machines.
Gnce pretctype designs have been developed, samples will be taken inte the
field for testing and evaluation.

PF Project

Efforts are being made to determine what packaging requirements are needed
to automatically tax stamp a 94 mm length product in a crush procf box.
Production of this product is to begin in late March or early April,
therefore, Marketing is most anxious that any tax stamping problems be
resolved as quickly as possible.

Five-Pack 20's Package

Marketing management has requested that plans begin to be made inmediately
for a test of the "twin five pack” carton concept. They have asked that
results be obtained in encugh time that a. national test of the idea can
begin by July 1, 1983.

One-Pack Mailer

Me

A one-pack "bock style" mylar laminated "mailer" was designed, accepted,
and is currently being used for NOd 85 and 100 am soft packages. Packages
are being mailed from the Coupon Redemption Center.

odified 12's Slide Pack

Graphic designs have been developed for a VANTAGE 12's modified slide pack
to be used on an upcoming pro golf teur.

Cigarette Packaging

Focus group sessions were attended in Washington, D.C. te qualitatively
Westigate unique packaging design concepts with cigarette smokers. Six
"gifferent" pack designs were presented and discussed with male and female
smokers between the ages of 18 and 34 years of age. ‘The groups were alse
divided between soft pack and crush procf box users, The overall general
consensus was that with the exception of ene package (the Expert A, slide
and shell style) all of the unique concepts could possibly be either
*tried™ or maybe used for a "special occasion but ne one was willing te

2202 g9s0s
