Dear

On behalf of the 40,000 smokers in Greensboro and the 12,500 employees
of R.J, Reynolds Tobacco Co., I would 11k to extend my most sincere
thanks for your support in opposing tha Greensboro ordinance to
restrict smoking in businesses and restaurants. While I am extremely
digappointed that the ordinance passed, I an encouraged by the fact.
that it was enacted by only a alin margin, indicating that there is
not, by any means, a strong mandate for smoking restrictions in
Greensboro.

I am also encouraged by the enormous amount of support that our
customers and our company received from you and our other suppliers in
Greensboro. Without that support, the voting margin would no doubt
have been much greater than it waa,

Even though ve lost this round in the battle, I hepe you do not become
discouraged. In other cities where anti-smoking zealots have made
inroads, their first efforts have usually led to additional proposals
for more restrictive regulations. I would hope that if that wera to
occur, you would join us and our customers in an intensified effort to
combat additional restrictions.

Smokers are not and should not be treated as second-class citizens,
It ia extrenely unfortunate that because of actions of only 6
percent of the Greensboro population, some 75,000 suokars in Guilford
County will soon suffer from unreasonable restrictions in Greensboro
businesses and restaurants.

For hundreds of years, common sense and common courtesy have provided
an excellent framework for smokers and nonemokere to peacefully
coexist. We and our customers continue to believe that is the best
solution to any problens that might arise,

Because your producta and services are instrumental in our ability to
supply our customers, the smokers of Reynolds Tobacco products are, in
affect, also your customers. I assure you that, with your help, we
will continues to fight to safeguard the rights those people who
support our business At Reynolds Tobacco, we work for smokers. Wa
appreciate your efforts in supporting that work. Thanks again.

Sincerely,

James W. Johnston
chairman and Chief Executive officer
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company

890s Tere
