INTERLABORATORY MEMORANDUM Sry 6 199)

To: Dr. A.W. Hayes
FROM: Dr. CRE. Coggins
DATE: 15 October 1991
SUBJECT : XDU Fiber analysis

Thave taken the responsibility for coordinating the fiber analyses in Project XDU, A number
of “up-front” issues need to be resolved: 1491

© Does the work have to be performed in-h » paford ol cd <
5 the work have to be performed in-house ‘ wer
© Are ihe analyses to be restricted to mainstream smoke ? Measurements of fiber
concentrations in sidestream smoke or in ETS are likely to be much more complicated to
perfor and interpret than are measurements in mainstream smoke. ayaa acigg ton es
”

‘® Js the 7 pm tengih fiber the only fiber to be investigated ? The 7 Hm fiber and a 1 pm fiber
were used earlier; there appears to be a possibility that 1 jum fibers may also be used in the
future. Identification and counting of the smaller fibers is much more complicated than for
the larger fibers.

© What is the target for fiber detection (ic, what level of certainty is required) ? Statements
such as "background" are meaningless: a much better approach is the use of figures such as
the number of fibers per unit volume, possibly comparing the result with TLY values for
other fibrous materials.

© Does the testing need to be performed with cigarettes incorporating the polypropylene filter,
or is another filter material to be used ?

© — Presumably, detected fibers would need to be definitively identified, using energy-dispersive
X-ray techniques ? This can be a very labor-intensive task.

‘The research plan to be followed is dependent on the answers to the above questions. Dr.
Mosberg has made a suggestion whereby experimental PREMIER-like cigarettes could be made
without the aerosol former, as 2 worst-case situation for detecting fibers in the mainstream smoke.
This idea would simplify significantly the subsequent detection of fibers on filters. However, 2
significant amount of time would be needed to demonstrate our ability to recover, detect and
definitively identify fibers, prior to any work with cigarettes.

as —

DiAT. Moshig i
Mr. G. Spence zz a“

STLe sests

Dr. PAH. Ayres
Dr. MF. Borgending
Dr. RL. Suber

Ms. RH. Stecle

