PRE
nWnl

91,:780-012 June 17, 1991

Lloyd H. Beidler, Ph.D.
Biological Sciences, Unit I
Florida State University
Tallahassee, Florida 32306

Dear Dr. Beidler:

This letter will constitute our agreement pursuant to which you will
conduct experiments for R. J, Reynolds Tobacco Coupany (hereinafter "RJR*) to
assess the possible effects of levulinic and other acids on the permeability
of sensory epithelia to nicotine, Test services are further described in the
Proposal, which {s attached hereto and incorporated by reference.

1. This agreement shall become effective Hay 1, 1991 and shali continue
through December 31, 1991.

2. You will conduct a set of experiments to examine the possible
effects of levulinic acid on the permeability of nicotine in tissues of the

tongue and from che nasal cavity as described in the "Research Plan in the
Proposal.

RIR is interested in both the gualicy and the timely completion of such
research, Time is of the essence with regard to the experiments to be

conducted and you shall make every effort to conduct your research within the
limits of time and funds set forth herein.

3. As consideration for the work to be performed by you, BIR will pay a
sum not to exceed $60,000 for all fees, costs and charges Sneurred in
connection with the performance of services hereunder. Fees, costs and
charges in excess of $60,000 in the aggregate shall not be incurred during the
term of this agreement without the prior written approval of RJR. Upen the
signing of this agreement, you shall invoice RJR In the amount of $30,000
(one-half (1/2) of the total), representing prepayment for the research to be
conducted, to cover fees, costs and charges. Thereafter, on or about August
1, 1991 RIR's Project Officer shall evaluate the progress of the research te
Gate, and in his sole discretion, determine whether it has been completed in a
timely manner which will ensure completion of the remaining research on or
before the December 31, 1991 contract expiration date. ‘The Froject Officer
shall then, at his discretion, advise you to submit the invoice co RJR in the
amount of $30,000, the balance of fees, costs and charges for the remaining
research. Invoices shall set forth all fees, costs and charges in reasonable

aces S85°5
