Liniversity of em Cancer Center

Science Park Research Division

October :. 1986

Dr. Harmon McAllister

‘The Council for Tabacco Research-U.S.A., Inc.
900 3rd Avenue

New York, NY 10022

Dear Or, McAllister:

Enclosed please find a condensed preliminary wrs.0sat of a study
which we would like to submit for consideration ot |i-ancial support by
The Council for Tobacco esearch. I have Iimited cia preliminary
proposal to approximately Z 1/2 pages as per our vere°t phone conversation
and hope that it is now satisfactory. As stated in «1 previous letter,
this proposal stems from follaborative work with iv. conald &. Harvey
of the 3en May Laboratory for Cancer Research (unisersity of Chicago,
Chicago, IL). Dr. darvey currently holds a Council fr Tobacco Research
Grant to synthesize the potential anticarcinoyenic ~ysnts to be used in
our proposea research, Our preliminary data, wnich will be elaborated
jn more detail should a formal application be enccura ed, dewonstrates
clearly that one of the initial compounds we nave wsoitined (a coumarin
derivative of benza(a)pyrene) is in fact a potent i-nibitor of tunor
initiation in mouse skin, We believe an in-depth scndy of the structure
activity relationships and mechanism of action of 2° i: class of compounds,
as well as closely related flavone derivatives alzs p-epared by Dr.
Harvey, is warranted. The potential benefits of such a study are, 1) a
better understanding of the mechanism of anticarcincy:nasis by coumarin
and flavone derivatives; 2) a better understandiny <t tne process of
chemical carcinogenesis by polycyclic aromatic nycrcirbons in a specific
target organ - skin; and most Importantly, 3) tae yccsntial for devel-
opment of more efficient chemopreventive agents clit wright one day be
used in humans,

Jf you need any additional information pleas- ic: me know, Ayain,
we appreciate and thank you in advance tor considrrim. tne enclosed
proposal.

Sincerely 3.73,

Associate *rufessor of
Experiment :| carcinogenesis
J0/ Jom (Bloetemis:e.:}

P.O. Rox 389 @ Smile, Tes 78087 @ 12°25 -2808

