- RAY F. DAWSON
18 WESTOOTT ROAD
PRINCETON, N. J. 08540, U.S A.
. Toy 6op-IeI01S

15 November 1967

Dr, Eelmut Wekehax
Vice President Rei
Philip Korria, Inc,

P.O, Bax 3-D

Richmond, Virginia 23206

VISIT 10 CENTER, NOVEMBER 10, 1967

“ay! admit that Roger hes cone throwh with the goods.
een good for hin, In any case, be has, in ny opinion, averkilled the stem ">
potting process in order to make it both acceptable ant sonvineing to manago~ *
nent. : ire

3a ny view, two things remain to be dono aside from the preperation of 4
‘ruined, reports, hanitooks, ete, The first 4s to ovaluste smoke from PS-
containing cigerottes in the usual battery of physiological tests, It is
Jossible that the more porous Taterial may burn in such @ way that physio-
Logically active pyrolysis products ere formed in greater than norma} quan-
tity. ‘The second 1s to prepare a l~pago table in which the raw natorial
UtLiizetion end ooat advantages of the different nothods for utilizing stems
are given at a glance, _

Thon, I think that a study of ths relative advantages of each method
for both Pi Domestic and each of the subsidiaries oni affiliates should be
©, Wndertaken taking into account as many ee possible of the specie) problems
end situstions that prevail in the different geographical regions, Where a
. distinct profit advantage of a given method appears, this vering question of
selling Rand D product to the rest of the Corporation might profitably be
approached frontally by starting a suall sales activity of your own, Burde
might do an exceptional job in those instances where his process and product
are the itens of choico,

Your willingness to present the casa to Pf Domestic ia aprreciated; and
I believe that they should te offered the alternative of leasing the patent(s)
$o outside firms, If the details could be worked out satisfactorily, I would
be willing to pit my money where my recomeniations aré and hence to duy a little
stock in auch an onterprise.

It 4e vy understanding that a consumer test of some magnitude ia in progress.
‘the outeons of this test should be most helpful in pointing the direction of
further effort. :
