/

SurroRtiNe BIOMEDICAL INVESTIGATION

mam CoUNCIL FoR ToBacco RESEARCH-U.S.A-, INO:

900 Tatren AVENUE
wwew York, N'Y 10022
exam) aar-enes,

Anrnun D. Brenszene, July 13, 1992
Dr. George Loo
Department of Nutrition
‘A-5 Park Building
‘University of North Carolina
Greensboro, N.C. 27412-5001

Dear Dr. Loo:

Thank you for your expression of interest in our program of research support Lam
pleased to enclose 2 statement describiag policies of The Council and s recent ‘Anntal Report
renee ante currently supported, Our application procedure entails « mandatory €0 St°p
process, First, a short preliminary inauiry is sent to members of the Executive Committee of
Process Jailig Advisory Board who evaluate it for scientific merit and for *¢it" into The
ae se ti rent multidiscipliaary biomedical research program. If the Committee's review
coane sitive, you will be provided with forms and instructions for completing & full
{Sblication, In the event you ceceive an award, The Council wil! consider yp fo toe. annual
application, Jue basis of progress reports and materials submitted with renewal applications,

The Council operates two application cycles per year and accepts preliminary inquiries
year-round; the date of receipt by CTR determines the eycle in which the proposal is evaluated.

ogpring cycle - any inquiry received between February 15 and August 14 and encouraged
by the Executive Committee may be submitted as a full apolication by November 30.

= Fall cycle - inquiries received between August 15 and February 14 and encouraged by
the Committee may be submitted as full applications by May 31°

Cycle Preliminary Inquiry Deadline for Notifieation Activation
Arrival at CTR Ful! Application. Date Date
Spring ‘Feb 15- Aug 14 Nov 30 ‘Early May Jul !
Fall ‘Aug 15 - Feb id May 31 Early Oct Jan?

‘The format for the preliminary application is as follows:

1. A three page narrative summary. This should contain a synopsis of the proposed project
A atuging solevant background material, its present status and goals, a brief outline of the
aoe shand its impact. ‘The summary should end with a sentence indicating the
sccipated duration of the project (one, two or threc years) and a single figure estimate
aa participated enaual direct costs of the study as proposed. Please note that the three
gage limit is absoluie; na attachment pages containing photographs, charts oF literature
Pee rsond will be accepted. If You judge such materials are critical for the review of the
Sropasal, they must be accommodated within the three page limitation.

2. Two page curricula vitae and scientific bibliographies of the applicant and principal
professional level collaborators (the NIH format is quite acceptable). Again, the page
prot ee strictly enforced: only two pages pet investigator are forwarded to the Committee.

3. One copy each of any two or three publications, abstracts or manuserints that are closely
related to the project for which funding is being sought.

Sincerely,

nosis

