JUN 16°97 OzIBSeH eter

muitos” fonmas

CE. Insurance Company, Ltd.

MIA FEDERAL EXPRESS
dune 2. :997

Gregory G. Little. Esq,

Senior Assistant General Counsel

PHILIP MORRIS MANAGEMENT CORPORATION
120 Pam Avenue

New York, N.Y, 10017-5882

Dear Me, Linte.

RE: leyoub v. The American Tobacco Co., at al., No. 96-1209
14th dud. Dist, Ct, Parish of Calcasicu, State af Laulsiana
Policy No.: MO-5124:5
Claim No.: 3456

‘This weil acknowledge receipt of your letter of May 8, 1997, on behalf of AC.E.
Insurance Company. Ltd. (7 |. As you afe aware, in March of 1997, A.C.E.
was named a delencant in the above-entitied action under Louisiana's “direct action”
stauste, Service on A.C.E, was effected on May 9. 1997.

In your ‘etter. you point otf that A.C.E. kas issued a policy of insurance to Philip
Moris. Inc. ACE. like Philip Morris. has no desite 10 litigate coverage issues.
Indeeo. A.C.E. believes tna only method for the resolution at any disputes arising o.t
cf or seating to the policy of insurance issued by A.C.E. to Philip Morris is through
arbivaton in accordance with the terms of the contract of insurance.

At the “meeting in New York on April 3. 1997 which Philip Morris hosted far is
insurers. Philip Mortis was asked if it would affirmatively disclaims any coverage under
its insurance policies for tobacco-felated’ cigims. including the claims asserted by
Ararney General Richard leyoub af Louisiana in feyoub, Philip Morris declined to do
$0. Although. as your letter points out. Philip Mortis has not tendered any claim ta
ACC.E. roe has it asked for coverage for tobacco-related claims under the A.C.E,
policy, A.C.E, believes there ig a present diepuve which exisia in respect of the policy
It issued (@ Phiip Morris. Phitip Morris seemingly wishes 10 preserve whatevar
ingurarce coverage May éxist under the A.C.E. policy, while A.C.E ‘contends that the
polley sos not provide coverage for any tobacco-related claim against Philip Morris.
including the claims being asserted in the fayoub litigation.

Tera Beco eae 45500 MA “NTE De Sa ENON, ME OTe HOR DOI
Continued’.

Tetrezesoz

