INTEROFE LCE MEMORANDUM

Td: br. A.W, hayes April 19, 1990
FROM: J. H. Rebnzon
SUBJECT: BGSM Proposal "Quantitative Analysis of the Reinforcing
Efireacy of Stimuldats”

The 1383 Surgeon General's report on “Nicotine Addiction” stated 7
Primary’ Cesteria for devermining whether er not a particular deug wes
addictive, . One of these critacia wos ‘Orug Reinforced Behavior’, i.e,
the drug 15 “capable of functioning as a reinforeePthat can directly
strengthen behavior leading to further drug iggaetion Research on
the reinforcing properties of nicotine in animal a¢lf-administretion
Studies mas used to support the contention that nicetine is addictive.

In a setf-administration test, an animal is fequired to perform a
specific task, which wen performed, results in the injection (or the
Presentation: of the drug being studied. tf an animal is willing to
perform the task wits the sole “reward” being drug presentation, the
drag is said tz have a "high abuse potential". The reason fur this is
that there seems to be a good correlation between drugs that animals
will self-adninistes and that are "abused" by humans,

The classic ecample of a drug that is self-administered by animals
and abused by humans is cocaine. Animals will readily work for cocaine
injections. In fact, many anrmals used in self-administration studies
are first trained to perform the required task (2.g., bar pressing} far
cocaine because it is such a powerful reinforcer. After the animal kas

arneg the task, other drugs are substituted and the animals behavior
is studies

Some researchers have suggested thet nicotine 18 addictive because
iv is self-adninistered by animals "just like cocaine fe". Unite ie te
true that animals will self-administer nicotine undor. the eight set of
circumstances, they dafiaitely do not self-edeinjseer micatioe “just
Vike cocaine”, I believe there are vary inportatl aifferences in how
aninaia will dalF-adninister ciffereat compounds, and thin propocal
From BGS" is designed to examine some of these differences in an

The qeals af the projesn are as follows:

1) Establish separate groups oF ea!
injections of aocaine, nicotine, ca

sho will work (bar press) for
eine and thesphylline.

2) Develop a teat where animale will have the opportunity to work for
food and water a5 well as for drug “eawarde", either at rhe same time
or on alternating sctedyt

esse 6LSTS
