Ted Sates Advertising/New York
 Beoachwoy, York
SSS ERUR Cote Menor Newb

March 9, 1984

Ms. Karin haley

R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co,

401 North Main Street

Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27102

Re: Sterling Consumer Promotion
Dear Karin:

This provides the Agency's recomended Sterling consumer promotion
plan through August, 1985. It has been revised since cur presentation
of February 23 te include; specific product movement applicatton and
a prioritized calendar for specific year-one consumer promotions.

Due to the lead time required to implement the recommended programs,
the Agency urges that consensus between the Brand group and your
Promotion and Special Events departments be reached in the near future.
We ave excited about these promotions and would very much Tike to get
them underway; we believe strongly that a fully integrated advertising
and consumer promotion program can establish/reinforce the Brand image,
but more importantly, will move product.

Background

As you remember, the initial plan concentrated in two areas - short-term
and long-term consumer promotion. In the area of the short-term, we

have proceeded with the addition of severa? targeted envtrormental

sampling events (°GQ Style Seminars" in Orlando, Tampa, and St. Petersburg,
Florida on Apri] 12, 13, and 14). We will continue to present onpartun-
istic targeted environmental sampling throughout the country for the

first quarter of the Brand's national introduction. This my include
special events, sporting events, and/or soctal functions. All opportunities
to get Sterling trial among prine target consumers should be carefully
considered.

In the area of long-term consumer pronotfons, please understand that,
while we are recommending four programs for the first year, we belleve
that the other promotions! programs recommended earlier are stil] strong
and viable candidates that can be used at sone future point in Sterling's
consuner promotion plan.

The Agency believes that a11 recommended programs are consistent with
Sterling's upscale, stylish image. When considering specific consuner
promotion programs as ‘they relate to product movenent, there fs a fine-
Vine between programs that are in keeping with the Brand's image and

bess Locos

‘Amember of the Ted eates Worldwide Group of Companles

rane ERENT TOE S08

