EHORANOUN . R.JReynolds Tabacco Company
‘Wingion-Salem,NC 27102

frp

February 12, 1982
Me, Samuel B. Witt, TIT

REL "PASSIVE SMOKING ~ Effects on Bronchial Asthna

T. E. Dahms, 3, F, Bolin, R. G, Slavin
(@epts. Psychology and Internal Medicine,
St. Louis University School of Medicine)

‘chest’ 0{5)+ 530-524, Novenber 1982

SUKHARY

‘The above paper has recently been published in a very important
journal; it can be expected to be cited in attacks by anti-
smokes against smoking in the area of public snoking. Tt scons
also certain that when this study wilt be discussed, neither the
explicit caveats of the authors, nor the implicit weaknesses of
design, will be mentioned, A number of points which, in my Sudg-
ment, largely invalidate, or at the very least seriously weaken
the intended thrust of that study, are detailed below.

An interesting “byproduct” of this study {5 that in the contyols
exposed under the same conditions as the asthmatic patients to
“passive smoking", the three pulnonary function teste improved

in all instances measured, even though half of the controls
@eclared themselves to be supersensitive towards smoking, however,
these differences in the controls, although consistent, were not
“significant, As another important aside, these authors seeningly
accept without question the validity of the White & Froeb study.

MEMORANDUM

A. he folloving authors" sunmary gives the thrust of the study, as intended
hy the authors. It leaves, however, out all of their caveats, with the oossible
exception of the reference to the “environmental chamber":

‘ten patients with bronchial asthma and ten control subjects were
exposed to sidestream cigarette smoke (passiva smoking) for one
hour 4 an environmental chamber. All subjects showed the same
increase in carboxyhenoglobin as a result of the exposure: 0.40
percent. ‘Tae asthnatic group denonstrated a significant linear
accrease in pulwonary function during this exposure. After one
hour of smoke, FEV decreased 21.4 percent, PEF 25-75% decreased
19.2 percent, and FVC decreased 20.0 percent in the asthmatic
patients. These alterations were readily reversible in al)

mhee Szeos

