ORF A eat,

December 1é, 1989

TO: Distribution
FROM: HM. L, Suggs

RE: ROW 1990 Emphasis Market

This details NOW’s 1990 emphasis markets and provides a strategtc overview
of their role within the BBU‘s marketing efforts.

Background

NOW began utilizing emphasis markets based on high Carlton brand
development (BDI) {n 1987 as an attempt to more aggressively leverage brand
business gains from Carlton's smokers. However, in 1990 the Brand has
structured a bileteral plan that continues to target Carlton smokers while
addressing competitive inroads from savings ULT styles. Two types of
markets are included in NOW's 1990 emphasis markets; Priority I (offensive)
which 1s based on high Carlton brand development and Priority IT
(defensive) is based on a combination of high savings ULT development and
overdevelopment of NOW.

In recognizing NOW's positioning as a targeted niche brand, we are fine
tuning our efforts vareus last year. In previous years brand development
for markets was accessed on a sales region basis. However, in 1990 nedia
spending 15 being further defined by assessing brand development at the
sales division level. Promotional programs (i.e., FSI‘s) will continus to
be selected on a sales region basis due to criteria for buying space and
efficiencies to be gained by maintaining wider coverage.

Rationale

Priority I (Offensive) - A market List based on high Carlton BDI is not
only representative of Carlton‘a high interaction, but that of the
Concerned Segment and the ULT category as well. Enphasizing those markets
allows NOW to capitalize on greater switching opportunities. Carlton's
overdevelopment has proven that smokers in those markets are positively
Gisposed to obtaining the “lovest.”

Priority II (Defensive) - The MUSA has traditionally been NOW's most
developed sales area, however, recent performance indicates that savings
ULT styles are negatively impacting NOW's performance. The NWSA is
overdeveloped for usage of savings ULT styles and that trend has begun to
increase in 1987. Diary panel information suggests bigh interaction
between beth NOW and Carlton because of almilar demographic profile with
the Savings Segment.

Attached are NOW 1990 emphasis markets for media and promotion based on the
criteria discussed above,

gas6 6ez¢s
