HRRC PROPOSAL

To: Or. Deborah H. Pence
Acting HRRG Chairman

Date: November 30, 1998

From: Charles Gamer
Richard Reich

Subject’ Smoke Panel Evaluations of Novel Transgenic Tobacoo Varieties
(Proposal # 9819}.

A. Background

Biotechnol eral

Bictechnological methods of genetic engineering ara relatively new techniques that
plant bresders use to make direct modifications to DNA. Scientists make copies of genes
for desired traits and introduce the gene copy inte an organism such as a food crop. The
new gene is usually a single gene whose function is well understood, These new
techniques minimize one of the major problems encountered by plant breeders who use
‘cross hybridization - no unwanted or undesirable genes are introduced with the desired
gene. In addition, scientists can make copies of genes from any organism - plant, animal,
oF microbe - thal may yield a desired trait and introduce that gene into @ food crop. This
greatly expands the pool of potentially useful traits available to plant breeders to improve
food crops. Onoe a desired gene has been introduced into a crop via genetic engineering,
the gene is usually crossed into ather crop lines that have desired commercial vaits. Such
crossing also permits the breeder to evaluate the genetic stability of the new gen

Overall, genetic engineering allows breeders to davelop new varieties more rapidly,
but at this stage of the technology, the new methods are used in conjunction with other
methods of plant breeding, such 8 cross-hybridization. The time required to evaluate
new varieties and the number of field tials will vary depending on the nesd to confirm
performance, to evakiate characteristics of the plant, to evaluate environmental effects,
and to produce the required amount of seed before the new plant variety can be grown
commerdally by farmers. Genetic engineering is used ta achieve the same goals of
agronomic and quality characteristics as traditional techniques and allows the breeder to
make some modifications that would not be possible through other mathads of plant
breading. Genetically engineered food crops have been devaloped to: resist pests and
diseases; tolerate chemical herbicides; exhibit improved food processing baits; exhibit
improved nutritional content; resist adverse soil and weather conditions; and to exhibit
improved fruit ripening or softening, texture, or flavor. This technology has advanced
beyond the experimental stage; 14 transgenic cropitrait combinations, developed by seven
<iffererit companies are no longer reguiatad by the USDA.

SLz9 TSTZS

