THE Counci. ror Topacco RESEARCH-U.S.A., INC.

SUPPORTING BroMunicaL INVESTIGATION 900 THIRD AVENUE
New Yorn, NY 10092

(arg) satan

Atma D. Eismvueno, Pa. Jan. 31, 1992
De. David Pascual
Dept of Microbiology
University of Alabama at Birmingham
University Station - BHSB 392
Biemingham, AL 35294

Dear Dr. Pascual:
‘Thank you for your expression of interest in our program of research support. Tam
pleased to enclose a statement describing policies of The Council and a recent Annual Report
that lists grants currently supported. Our application procedure entails a mandatory two-step
process, First, a short preliminary inaviry is sent to members of the Executive Committee of
our Scientific Advisory Board who evaluate it for scientific merit and for “fit” into The
Council's current multidisciplinary biomedical research program. If the Committee's review
vote is positive, you will be provided with forms and instructions for completing a full
application, In the event you receive an award, The Council will consider up to two annual
renewals on the basis of progress reports and materials submitted with renewal applications.
‘The Council operates two application cycles per year and accepts preliminary inquiries
year-round; the date of receipt by CTR determines the cycle in which the proposal is evaluated,
- Spring cycle - any inquiry received between February 15 and August 14 and encouraged
by the Executive Committee may be submitted as a full application by November 30,
- Fall cycle - inquiries received between August 15 and February 14 and encouraged by
the Committee may be submitted as full applications by May 31:

Cycle Preliminary Inquiry _ Deadline for Notification Activation
Arrival at CTR Full Application Date Date
Spring Feb 15- Aug 14 Nov 30 Early May Tal
Fall Aug 5 - Feb i4 May 38 Eacly Oct Jan

‘The format for the preliminary application is'as follows:

1, A three page narrative summary. This should contain a synopsis of the proposed project
including relevant background material, its present status and goals, a brief outline of the
rescarch and its impact. The summary should end with a sentence indicating the
anticipated duration of the project (one, two or three years) and a single Figure estimate
of the anticipated annual direct costs of the study as proposed. Please note that the three
Page limit is absolutes no attachment pages containing photographs, charts or literature
citations will be accepted. If you judge such materials are critical for the review of the
Proposal, they must be accommodated within the three page limitation.

2. Two page curricula vitae and scientific bibliographies of the applicant and principal
professional level collaborators (the NIH format is quite acceptable). Again, the page
limit is strictly enforced; only two pages per investigator are forwarded to the Committec.

3. One copy each of any two or three publications, abstracts or manuscripts that are closely
related to the project for which Funding is being sought.

f

es Arthur D. Eisenberg

Enelosui
ADE/mla

