Ral Reynokis Tobacoo Company
Winston-Salem, NC. 27102

Thomas J McCabe

Group Media Planning Menager RR

February 28, 1984

Ms. Sara Fortune
13-30 Corporation
505 Market Street
Knoxville, TN 37902

SUBJECT: RUR/Moviegoer
Oear Sara:

Confirming our conversation, we would like to review several executional
areas in connection with R. J. Reynolds sponsorship of Moviegoer. These
relate to items specifically covered in the contract as wel-l-as elements
included in the original presentation.

Monitoring

The origina? proposal outlines the following monitoring system: 1) the
detailing force will be required to complete weekly forms, 2) monthly calls
will be made to each theatre's management to check that distribution is in
order, 3) quarterly visits will be made by 13-30 full-time field operations,
4) periodically, cards will be inserted in the magazines and the response
will be monitored on a market by market basis.

We do not need or want a great amount of detail in connection with this
monitoring. However, we would like to have a quarterly update supported
by a current list of markets, theatres, circulation, etc.

Research .

The contract calls for field research each year to validate audience
composition i.e. 50% of copies received by male readers and 50% received
by adults 18-29 years. This research is budgeted within total yearly
cost to RJR. The contract also provides that RJR shall have the right to
cancel sponsorship without penalty in the event that Moviegoer does not
provide these demographics.

While male audience delivery is less important based on SALEH's dual

audience target, we feel that it is tmportant to validate the 18-29 audience
delivery. Further as in the 1983 study, this research should also update
audience delivery of Moviegoer as compared to general magazines. Accordingly,
we would like to move ahead with the 1984 phase of this research. 13-30

and RJR research groups should coordinate with the objective of having
updated research available by mid-year.

c96n EONCS
