UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY
LEXINGTON, KENTUGKY 40508

TOBACG® ANO MEALTH RESEARCH ‘ornce oF THe DINCTOR
meres April 19, 1977

Dr. William Gardner
Director, CIR

110 Rast 59th Street

New York, New York 10022

RE: Project of Lirtner & Schachter
of Yale University

Dear Bill:

1) _ 1 do uot have at hand (because of the move to the new building, the
Lecter from the outaide refree (Tashkin?) bet although he thought the grant
could be approved, a major portion of the letter indicated that much of the
airway work had been done and was in the literature. Tashkin refutes the pro-
ject on page 1 with a clear review of the work that has been done and than on
Page 2 suggests support. I chink the Yele 1avestigators know the literature
but overlooked it!

2) Although their lsboratory is obviously set up to do histamines and
other pharmacological sensitivity teste, the role of cigarette exposure is of
Limited consideration to them. it would appear they want to plug in cigarette
onoke, but theit principal concera 4s with pharmacotherapeutic agente. If we
want to know the importance of e{garette smoking to airuay response, expose
the airways to smoke not histamine

3). It is well known that Propranalol potentiates the effects of pulmonary
irritants such as cigarette smoke and chat Atropine blocks. Jay Nadel of San
Francisco has been taking the neural pathways in airway conduita apart and
pucting them together for some years,

4) It is already known that smokers who continue to smoke will continue
to have an accelerated decrenent in FEV, and if they stop smoking, their rate
approaches that of the normal ageing process (cee Fletcher, Peto and Spicers’
new book on the Natural, History of Chronic Bronchitis.)

5) Parts of thety experimental design are troublesome, particularly of
selected groups; basically I assume their non smokers are non avokers, thare-
fore because of systemic responses to their first smoke, many direful reaulte
may occur; if they plan to stop medivetion for eight houre and oral medications
for 24 hours in asthmatics, most of this group will be non-smokers, Asthmatics
wil1 not be willing to inhale that mucl

6) To study muleiple dose response to histamines doesn't seem to have much
to do with the emoking and healch problem.

50210703
