INBIFO Institut fur biatogische Forschung GmbH - Kain

2 June 2006 TERA Page 7

Sar 7 WRE
ov?

4

‘The guidelines seem to be in fine with current standards. It might be worthwhile to amend ‘b’ to
include ‘reviewing’ as well as ‘revising’. Something Hike this: ‘drafting the article, reviewing it for
Possible revision, or revising its intelectuad content’ OR (aven simpler and more procise)
“drafting the article or reviewing/revising it cciicaly for importan intellectual content

Subject: PM WSA Guidelines for Authoranip in Scientific Publications

Dear Mingda,
(Hans-Juergen Haussmann passed your drat guidalings on to me)

Also, you might consider incorporating tha following points:

1. any pant of an article critical t0 its main conclusions must be the
responsibility of at least one author

2. participation aolely in the collection of data (or ether evidence) does
ot justify authorship

3. an author should be able to defend publicly in the scientific community
all of the intellectual content of the paper

from "Guidelines on Authorship of Medical Papers (Huth EJ. Ann Intern Med. 1986;104:269-
74), which draws on the principles that you used to draft the WSA guidetines.

‘One other issue you might consider addressing ip the designation of firel author and the
sequence af fisting. in The Order of Authorship: Who's on First?" (JAMA, October 10, 1890-—
\Vot 264, No. 14), Ors. Riesenberg and Lundberg suggent the following:

“The first suthor is that person who contributed most to the work, including writing of the
manuscript (an author ia a person who wntes). The sequence of author listing is
determined by the relative contributions to the work.”

Unfortunately they do not propose any aystem for evaluating the relative contributions. In
‘When Authorship Fails’ (AMA, August 20, 1997-—Vol 278, No.7), Rennie et al suggest listing
authors:

‘according to the relative importance of their duties: in descending order, starting with
the collaborator who made the most substantial contributions.

These authors, too, fail to provide a simple, clear method by which to evaluate the ‘relative
importance of duties’ other than fo cHe an article by Davis and Gregerman (1969), which wos
‘Spparently written as a joke. it states that credit should be allocated an “the basis of the fraction
of the total work performed”

In any case having some kins of system in place before the fact and available to potentiat
authors seems a good idea,

Hope you find this helpful
Best regards,

Lynda
(INBIFO Language and Communications Advisor)

WearcowanGoa no

SLes0tsose.
