NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY

Leputiae f Mrobslony
a Ppuiony
Noth Comat Dre
Mes 60208. 1529
“oe 0695-5520

Arthur D. Eisenberg, PhD. \ Py) posi 20

‘Associate Research Director bs xa\€}

‘The Council for Tobacco Research

900 Third Avenue

New York, NY 10022

Dear Dr. Eisenberg:

1 am writing this preliminary prope » fall
spplication for a grant from the Council for 7 have
teen working with chromaffin cells studying ¢ “rent

‘gue, For the past seven years 1 have « ally
the chromaffin cell Ca channels at the whole-cel ars
at Northwestern University, the aim of my rese8 _woomainels
that are involved in transmitter release as wall 38 _-wees Yommé of the reguletory

properties of rapid endocytosis (RE); the rapid ——aeorsHet Tecovery event that immediately
lows exocytosis, I plan 10 continue these studies, having as long term goal of my tesearch to
understand bow the secretory cells and neurons deliver their secretory products (hormones and
vrotransmitters) to the bloodstream or synapse. 1 am maily interested in the molecular
mecharisms involved in the late stages of the secretory process, nantely the movement of
Meeretory vesicles 10 the inner surface of the plasma membrane, docking of vesicles, and the
fmocytotie membrane fusion and fission process. Stiemsius-sechit coupling is 2 complex
Frogdim of the physica) patterns of activity, Kinetic properties of available Ca channels, Ca”
Pandting within the cell and finaly, the Ca’ sensing properties of the secretory machinery

ae adrenal chromaffin cells has been recognize as @ model system |” which to study
secretion Catecholartine release ftom adrenal medulla plays 8 maint role in the process by which
eganiams respond to stress. The purpose of the present applcalion is to study the molecular
aearssethe “REN or ight response in toms of the events occurring 19 individual. chromaffin
aan ath the physiological stimulus acetylcholine, To accomplish this ‘goal we will employ four
experimental techniques. These are patch-clamp (perforsted-patch 10 measure Ca curreats),
perforated-patch current-clamp recording (0 evoke action potentials) and, to directly monitor the
Prrease of neurovransmiters with bigh-resohution and sensinvity, both voltammemy and
reat ements of changes in membrane capacitance will be employed

“Thus grant ol give me the opportunity 12 develop scientifically, Pursue and ultimately
teach the goals I briefly describe in the attached applicstion.

‘Thank you for your consideration
Sincerely,

fy it

on}

ry R. Artalejo, M.D., Ph.D.

COLLEEA CF ARTE AND SC ANCES

