ATIONAL

duly 30, 1996

Mr. Gary L. Tooker

Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Motorola, Inc.

1803 E. Algonquin Rd.

Schaumburg, IL 60196

Dear Mr. Tooker:

‘The intensity of media, civil liberties and academic focus on Motorola's
unconscionable policy toward Its smoking employees clearly supports our view
that Motorola hes exceeded the limits of secsptable corporate behavior. That
Teaction shauld indleate to you the need to change this polloy - and fast. We
wilt do whatever we can to continue to bring this policy to the attention of those
wha care about the personal freedoms of your employees, who have been
given no voios In this discussion.

I would be remiss as a gentleman if | did not inform you that the National
Smokers Alliance is contacting officials of state and local govemments that are
largely dependent on the tobacco economy for tax revertues, including excise
taxes pald by smokers. As you are undoubtedly aware, goverment contracts
«with suppliers normally have exceptionally stringent anti-discrimination
requirements. We fully intend to encourage application or expansion of those
requirements as they apply te Motorola contracts.

Just 80 you accurately understand the position of the National Smokers
‘Alliance, we recognize that there are work areas, particularly in high-tech
‘manufacturing plants such ag yours, where smoking cannot be allowed. There
is no reason, however, that reasonable, comfortable, accessible
socommodations cannot be made for your smoking employees somewhere on
company property. not only in the Hlinols facilities which brought your policies
to our attention, but also in other states where we have leamed that simftar
policles are in effect. I other corporations, such as State Farm, can reverse
thelr poficles, 80 can Motorola.

‘The National Smokers Alliance intends to do everything within its power,

through every vanue avallable to it, to get you to rescind your polloy. By the
same token, If you do, then we will do everything within our power to help you

Tarvin ate

TOW anklagiee F Te Mecindite, WR PUN Tol, TOS TARTS F

G¥ezZPOLOZ
