orerrugee Ot 2pvInaTON $ RUBING FOOT pan es N78

jpledga Response!

{date]

mamber of Congress)
(address

Deer {Member of Congressh:

Antismoking actives ara culating © Congress 2 document seeking C20
aaqmnoet's comenitinert, 36 & CONEY puis it, "ia upper the President ‘and the FDA" in
Mermetobacce sniiative, WE urge YOu not to sigh On.

‘Toedocument, risleadingly enstled Commitment ta Our Children,” fers
a vtany of health claims about tbacoe and farrier attacks on tobacco advertising and
promation. The document's tite is risheading because the purpose ‘of the document {sto
muster congressional ‘supaort for FDA's proposed tobacco regulations — natever they May
mua ae proponents never acess pote eatin of wiheiner FOA isthe BEET

MS saraae the issue of vouth stot Nica) er ine agency's proposed reEUTors

‘Youth smoking bs & problem ~ # grablem that Congress and the states have
rade and are making serious efor 10 ‘address. in the ADAMHA Reorganization Act of

1992, Congress declared that a Sgoverienents sould take SON prevent youth access
to tobi ane vided Francia! incentives FO dO $0 Every state has in effect
\ roi ene sare and disibutlon of oben produat 10 under the age

48, and many are movin aggressively, ache save and socal levels, to envorce thase Ls,
More action on that front is ‘warranted,

for over 80 years, on the ether tras withheld jurisdiction aver
tobacco from FOA, choosing instead 10 regul firactly (rough the Federal
‘Sparen Labeling and Advaraing ASS 15 Us
Gaegating regulatory responsibilty ety of agencies othe shan FOA. as well at fo the
Gates, FDA simply does not have jurisdiction to regulate tobacco.

FDA thas ced a benign goal « Tecuelng rearage smoking in assertiog
jurisdiction over tobacen, and me egigions FDA has eropast’ = sedseass ont
the promotion and sale. ‘of the product ‘But once the princiole ig established that FDA may
Feputae tobacco orodvers in this Manny cre pe open to FDA fo DrDDOSE ny other
mguiations te agency may Jater cons:dee desirable. That ia the precedent the antismoking
Tenby hopes to establish. FOA'S Srapased rules theres clude promise to impose

osgotss90z
