Auguat 20, 1980

‘onal “obla
ieordal Stats

The Los anveles Tires
Los AnrBdes. CA 99053

Dear "r. Sobda+
Tn reanonse to vour telephone request of August 14. T am sending you
hernwith a conv of The Sonneil's 197 Annual Yeport. This includes o let of
tie Selentific dvisery Poard cenbers ag of that var. Thelr scdentifte aedi~
veus ate furnished in the enelesed excerpts from jnerican Yen and Nonen of

Two ether canphlate are also enclosed for inforsation on the Council's

store. solictes ond rouys srerarct,

Purine the tuenty-five vears of the Council's Sistore (inelulte: the
teri? vhea dt vas ontitled “he Tohaceo Endustey Desearen Momittee)a roster af
ether listincuished nctentiete bave served on the Searc. the naterity of “Yor
eontdouec their service unt! carnelled by vearcag of tealeh er are to retires
" taster of thesa could siso te provided ££ it weulé be elpful co vou.

As 3 unierstand our conversation, rou are concerned with ionetize
sefentists qualifted to comment authoritatively on the questfen wheter on-
scokers, Ly: i workinz dn ord{narv hoze. cublic and work-place anviren—
s whete other people are anokine, focur any sf ff health rish fren
rte exposure.

i

industrdal work enviroments wiere substentiel exposures to chenicals,
toxte eases, harcful ¢uste. radtatton or other health hazards greatly comrli-
sate the picture, are not included here.

Yares of otcht sctanciste uto tn -w arintos ate qualified to wake euch
Gencents are enclosed, again in che fora of excerpes fro: spertean Yen and “omen
gf Setence which show their acteutific Mectplines esecielties, pofenalotal
Cistorles aad prosent locations, ‘here telephone mushers vere easily avattehle
ev Gave been added, fn addition, I ‘ave already referred you to Dr. Julius
‘ont0e,

Fone of these cersons has “con inforned of your inquiry snd 1 vould sug~
sest that none whom vou wish to interrogate he informed that I suggested him to
yoo 2a an assurance that ha will spesk hts own wind without any possidle constraint.

