Fire Standards and Accreditation Board

2000 MARKET STREET N.E., SUITE 258, SALEM, OREGON 97310 PHONE 376-5210
duly 23, 1979

Nr, Andrew McGuire
‘The Burn Council

Traum Center, Building One
San Francisco General Hospitel
San Francisco, CA 94110

‘Dear Mr. MoGuire:

As you are probably avare, the United States Fire Adninistration recently
endorsed the msufacture of solf-extinguishing cigarettes. I spoke with
Hugh Maguire of the USF4 andi he referred me to you. I might add that I
read the July 1979 issue of “other Jones regazine (‘Cigarettes and Sofas”
by Becky O'Malley) and you were listed as a contact.

‘The Fire Standards and Accreditation Board of the State of Oregon is
working ona ‘aster Plan for fire prevention and control. The project

is funded by the LSPA and guided by a planning ccmmittee. Not unlike

the Caited States as a bole, Cregon's greatest cause of fire fatalities
is soser careleseness; 1 fae] that the regulation of long-buraing
exgarettes. could significantly reduce our lésses. A strong recumendation
in the “aster Plan would alert the Governor, the legislature ard the

Fire Service to the benefits of such a position. Supported on the state
level, {t might be possible to enact ieyislation that would prohibit
cigarettes which burned extensively vbile not being sroked. Oregon's
“pattie bill” and tan on fluorocarbons in aerosol sprays have gotten wide
recognition and have had a significant effect on the attitudes of other
states.

doa voemendint ion on self-ext ingwishing cigarettes,
the buckinound milerirl that is available. The bivlio—
graphy ia “Nother Jones" is of sone help, but a more personal and dircct
reference would te invaluable. In addition, any sumestions you would
dave on the specific formaflation of a proposed ban would be of halp.

col we are in a umigne pasition to take action on the. USFA endorse-
ment. If Oregon is able to focus attention on the tobacco industry's
recalcitrance, we might have a real impact on the country as a vAole.
‘The Master Planning Cormtee supports the efforts to identify und re-
duce losses due to fire —- this is an excellent opportunity to reach
that gnal.

LEEZOOTOOZ

Me

