RJ. Reynolds Tobacco Company
e Hs, Heintz - Key Account Mgr.
4737 College Park - Suite #105
‘San Antonio, Texas 79249

Ph: 210-492-1020

Fax: 210-492-1005

‘Voice Mall Extension: 48623

Subject: H-E.B. Pantry Foods - 1996 Merchandising Plan
Tate: May 14, 1996

Ladies & Gentlemans

In follow up to my Ieiter of 3722/96, you are being provided with additional d
to merchandising in all HEB Pantry Food stores. After a period of time
and PM have agreed to contract all Pantry locations.

Ils as it pertains
jout a contract in effect, both RJR

‘The primary change that you will notice is that all carton merchandisers will convert to
vertical loading of RJR and PM products. While Philip Morris will be responsible to reset all fixtures to the
vertical load, you will be responsible in insuring that RR brands are properly merchandised after the reset is.

e completed,
To assist you in this task, you are being provided with a Brand By Hrand layout for the most
commonly used carton configuration in the Pantry stores. Only a few stores have a carton set different from
the 16° set provided. As POG's are recelved for those stores, they will also he forwarded (a you.

You will note that a few RIK brands were omitted from the By Braud POG due to low sates,
All of the Sterling and Magna styles were excluded along with Century and More Light 100, Cumulatively, all
of these brands accounted for less than 7 PACKS per week per store in sales, Should you have an individual :
store that has significant sales of any of these brand styles, you may consider finding them a heme on the

fixture - otherwise, I would suggest they be discontinued aud returned to GSC for credit, Concerning Steriing

& Magna, ihe space that they currently oecupy In the Savings area will be needed for DORAL in the neat

future, A new EDLP program is being finalized, aad when implemented should result in significant sales

increases for Doral.

PACKAGE MERCHANDISING: Pantry will contiuue ¢o utilize a 6° PM spring fed fixture
behind the quick check. As in the past, this fixture will be vertically loaded with RJR & Pi sharing canopy
nage, Although @ POG Is included for this fixture, Tdo not anticipate that any changes will be necessary.
Later this year, PM will be installing Gverbead fixtures in Pantry (3 peer store). Additional information will be
provided when implementation time nears. As information, any new store that is built will be patterned alter
(heir CORF. stores - packs will be merchandised from an RSR Lobby Spring Fed (next fo the cartons) and PM
overhead fixtures.

PACK PROMOTION AREA: You will notice on the carton POG that one area has been
e designated as a Pack Promo Box. This area will be used for RJR & PM pack promotions, We are ficalizing

9sozs

2600

