Ukdoh2: 08/02/97

Date: March 24, 1997
To: Distribution
From: D. Cooper Rees

Subject: Highlights of Meeting with United Kingdom"s Department of Health

‘The purpose of this memo is to summarize a meeting held with Des. Fairweather and
Shine from the United Kingdom’s Dept. of Health (DoH) held at DoH’s offices at
Wellington House in London on March 18, 1997. A number of issues were discussed and
are presented below.

RIR Product Stewardship Program

‘The DoH and Technical Assessment Group (TAG) remain adamant about their concerns
regarding our recent propane submission. Following a detailed discussion of the data
reporting for animal #510, I believe that DoH scientists recognize that much of the
problem resulted from confusion in how our data were stored and reported. The TAG is
less sympathetic (see comments below).

As [have indicated in previous memos, future submissions should include a clear
description of the data allowing the reviewer to “easily” track all information by animal
number. As stated by the DoH:

“The type of information that should be provided includes: tumor type and
location, all tumors labeled correctly and “tracked” throughout the study including
time-to-tumor dita. These data should be clearly provided for cach animal in an
easy to tead format, A description of how the post-mortem is conducted should
be included as well as e description of the pathologist's qualifications, Terms
should be clearly defined and consistently used (e.g., mass, questionable
growth),”

Tsopentane Protocol

Drs. Fairweather and Shine reviewed RIR’s draft protocol for isopentane. They stated
that, in their view, the protocol seemed adequate. They indicated that before the study is
initiated the final protocol should be submitted to TAG for review. Submission of the
protocol should include a review of any logic used in decisions regarding test design
(eg., choice of strains in the Ames test, absence of an initiation component of the dermal
study),

TAG has already bea notified about the possibility of another expansion agent
submission. Dr. Fairweather was curious as to why RJR was interested in testing another
agent after having already received approval for propane,

i
8
3
&
2

