EDWARD PRESS, M.D., MPH.
7.0. BOX E576
: PORTLAND. OREGO

207-2876

spraa 7, T985

Mr. P, H. Leake

Bssistant Research and Development Director
The American Tobacco Co.

Pesearch and Development

P. 0. Box 899

Ropeweil, VA 23860

Dear Preston:

Thanks for sending me a copy of your Kar. 19th letter to Dick Gann.
You have obviously put much time and thought into it and it raises
some good points. If we were to switch from testing systematically
altered cigarettes to testing only the currently commercially avail-
able cigarettes; I too would object. However, our primary emphasis
3s still on developing a method for testing ignition propensity,

and our secondary, interest is, thatonce this method is established
and we can identify the parazeters of the cigarette characteristics
that are the primary factors in ignition propensity--then it should
be useful and enlightening to know which, if any of the cigarettes
2lready on the market, in part or in whole, already possess these
characteristics. I feel, and I think the majority of the Technical
Study Group share my view, that there is a difference in ignition
potential of the currently manufactured cigarettes and we should be
in @ position to identify this difference to determine its significance.
Maybe three fourths of the cigarettes already being manufactured are
relatively safe and there is no need to change them! Why make all
manufacturers go through expensive retooling, if it is not necessary?
That is why I voted for including the testing of existing brands of
cigarettes at our Mar. 4th meeting. Once we have identified the

the chief characteristics that influence the ignition propensity,

we need not test every existing brand, only those where these charac-
teristics are substantially different.

1 also understand your concern abovt the ambiguity in the testing
methodology and the problems that could surface if an incomplete,
oversensitive or erroneous testing method were to be applied to all
corimercial cigarettes. Such a course could result in a keen compet-
itive advertising and manufacturing campaign by the various Tobacco
Companies to achieve cigarettes with the lowest ignition propensity-~
when in fact, for practical purposes of actually Starting fires,
there was a threshold point below which few, if any cigaretts would
start fires and a similar threshold point in the batting, covering
raterial or flanges of the furniture or mattresses, Unless we can
prove differently, such may be the case. If this were the case and
we mistakenly engaged in a competition to get the lowest ignition
roting, an unnecessary, expensive and misleading advertising and cig-
arette modification campaign could ensue. Moreover, if the igrition
propensity turned out to be inversely proportionate to the tar, CC
@onicotine levels, the lowest ignition propensity could result
in the highest cancer and Cardiovascular tazard.

S8LT oseos

