Dear Friend:

A few years ago the Boeing Company decided to build the new
797 facility in Snohomish County. Goaing projected that building
the facility would create hundreds of construction jobs, that
production of the plane would create or preserve thousands of jobs
in the transportation industry which would add millions of payroll
dollars'te the Puget Sound area.

Fortunately for washington Stata, Boeing decided to build the
facility in Everett instead of Wichita, Kansas or some other state.

You'd think the State of Washington would be happy to have an
employer the size of Boeing, and you'd think we'd want to make it
3s easy as poasible for the company ta expand and grow here.

‘That's what you'd think. But consider this.

Boeing says it spent $50 million just to get the parmits and
licenses needed to start construction...10-40% more than it would
hava paid in a “business friendly” state vhere they already do
business. AB a result of this abaurdity, company executives now
say their next plant will probably be built somewhere else.

unfortunately, az you know very well, the way Boeing was
treated is not an isolated incident.

As a member of the Association of Washington Business, I
probably don't need to tell you the horror staries--delays thet
force good people into bankruptcy--regulators that take three years
te qrant a permit--agencies that can't decide who is in charge.

Suffice it to say there are enough horror stories to start a
elion.

State government needa to learn that business is not the
eneuy, State government needs to learn that without a thriving
business sector, taxes won't be paid and workers won't have jobs.

There are several reasons 1 want to be Governor. Improving
the business climate is one of the better ones. Quite simply, wa
can go the route of places like New York, California and
Massachusetts and kill the goosa that laid the golden egg,
can preserve what we bave and maxa it better by making it
for business to do busin I prefer the latter,

TNWL 0025537

Pofocbe eer 92 Ties Square Big 16H ny Sue 0 Laver sel Sele, A SRI0N (206 62.7167 Aol Wan ean Regen
_

