Be. Merene
Inter-office Memorandum

Subject: Weekly Status Report on Jx]0 Research Datet March 20, 1974
Fi

cy

RIN

No._7_ By

(2) Browning Reaction (Giles) -- No results are available to date on taste
tests of the samples desctibed leat veek, It has been noted that J-10 which has
been tossted then subjected to the browning reaction 4a less detectable in tobacco
blends than is toasted J-10.

MEMORANDUM:

(2) Burn Additives (Rice) -- The effect of the ratio of inorgente additives
to each other on the side stream aroma of J-10 cigarettes is being investigated.

(3) Thermal Analysis (Pehl, Clapp) -- TGA and DIA of toasted J-10 ehowed
no difference from untoasted J-10, An attempt will be made to trap naterials
in the effluent gos stream from TCA on TENAX for subsequent analysis. Weight
loss in the toasting process will be examined by TGA.

(4) Smoke Composition (White) -- Blends containing 20X J-10 (toasted and
untoasted) are being prepared for comparison with similar cigarettes made from
other oxtenders.

(5) Procenstag (White) -- Jn10 has been prepored from sevoral varieties
and {Alling values of the toasted and untoasted varieties are being determined.

Plans are underwey to modify the shredder to have different thickness
blades so chat the effect of shred aize on filling value, ete. can be evaluated.

(6) Other Grains (White) -- Wheat, rice, and millet shreds have been toasted
and found to develop a color euperior to that of J-10 in relation to the color
of tobacco. FIC ‘tar’, nicotine, and taste evaluations are being obtained on
Blends containing the untoasted samples. Similar teste will be made on the
toasted samples.

(7) Literature Susvey (Colby, Whalen) -- In regard ¢o other grains, the search
of tobacco substitutes did not reveal coverage of other grains. More intensive
study will be made in this erea and information wil] be sought on other puffing
wethods.

wm

MES:10

xe: Dr. C. B, Teague, Jr.
br. As H. Laorene
Dr. D. W, Pleh?
Dr. H. J. Bluhm
J-10 Task Force

69S OZITS

fant FORM 2422-Ro, 2770

