J
!

f uy position is Chief Inspector in @ Health Department in 8 largo

aos Albert G, Clay
Prosident

. Burley Auction Warehouse Assn,
Mount Sterling, Kys

July 24,1957

dy dor Kr. Clays
‘Your statement in the attached is the first I have read thd, bit

the nail on the head. You might have added, however, that the vicious campaign

was an attempt to shake down the tobacco industry by a group of wnscrupuous 50

called gentlenen who unfortunately carry a great deal of wieght with the average
Peron.

city on the Pacific Coast. This is my thirty sixth year in the businc’é, for tronty
Gf ahem I averaged fourteen hours a day working with « roal scientist who has forgotten
fore sbout research and Public Health than all the laboratory experts end present

day health officers will ever know.

Wy work with him brought me inte many phases of Occupational diseases
‘and hazerds anong which was a great deal of work on occupational diseases of the lungs

we jointly wrote articles that were published in the Journal of
the AtlKe ,Public Health Reports, Journal of the A.P.H.A. ani others. He presented
many papers that he and T prepared at ennual meetings of those organizations. He
wae recvogtived for his ability to discuss on o monchts notice, papere that others
had given. As a tatter of fact at a mecting of the A.P-H.A. one year seven papere
mere given in one day on seven different topics, the pre chosen discussants wore
not present at the end of the dey he was asked to discuss the papers and without
hesitation took on all seven in an interesting manner. For tno yodrs he edited
the Year Book on Public Health, during which Lime all of the sbstracts on
Occupational Diseases, Industrial Hygiene, Food Poisoning and Environmental Senitation
were prepared by this writer. From this you may gather that I am familiar with
Scientific research ard its related publications, ad the nanner in whigh statistics
may be twisted to acconmodite any situation and how sone of these researchers g°
off half cocked in their conclusions and coment.

The sudden attack against cigarette snoking in its alleged
relation to lung carcinona has interested ne from the start. lost of the poblished
articles have been carefwly observed and to dete not one author has been able to
produce the slightest proof based on scientific fact that cnoking is in any wey
responsible.

tye been smoking cigarettes since I was twelve yeara old, I'a

now fifty six and have yet to fecl the slightest ill effects from this pleasur
Presently, and for quite sone time I have been smoking a pack and one half a day. |S

‘The opposition carefully avoids mentioning severe) factors in
‘the alleged increase in lung cencer. Number one in my opinion, ie the terrific
{increase in atmospheric pollution, especielly in large cities. Secondly, Industrial o
exposures in present day manufacturing that have not been properly protected ageinst.
To nave a few, Asbestos, Chronates, Cement, coal mining, iron end steel foundries, 2
hydorcarbons etes >
2

You no doubt have already read the conclusions based on sound = =

