1. NOV 12 "9? GSHISPM FHILIP MORRIS RA H< BSzzBEREe7 P.aa

The Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Executive Office of Health and Human Services
Department of Public Health
250 Washington Street, Boston, MA 02108-4619

@ res
QD Ton Mame

wrung a, ovaRY

OWA KD,
ocaiaaanee

Qetober 31, 1997
Dear Sir:

‘The purpose of this leuse is to nolify you that effective December 15, 1997. any tobacea
manufactures which sells ciguelies o¢ tmokelexs tobacco products in the Commanwealtn of
Massachusetts must comply with Maseechuseus General Lats, Chapter 94, Section 307B and

_ segulazions promulgated by the Deparimect of Public Hoallb under the auchocty of the law. The
law and regulations do not caver ctgars oF fine cut tobacco products and no report i required for
these products.

‘A.copy of the tow and the regulations are enclosed, In sumury, the seguiations require tobaceo
‘manufacturers to fla an anita report with the Department of Public Healih on or bofore
December 15, 1997. Tha annwe! reporr contins cwo compodents. The first is « nicotine yield
rating for each brand, sub-brand, and genatio unbranded cigarette or smokeless tobacco product
sold in the Commonwealth of Massachuseus. For ths first annual report dug on December 15,
1997, manvfaciurers of cigarettes are required to repon informadlon sptcified in section 60.102,
ofthe regufations for exch brand, sub-brand, or genetic unbranded cigarette which belongs to &
‘brand family with a national market share greater than 1.5%, Manufactoters of brand families of
‘cigazenes that have a market share less than 1.5% are required to report the most recent nicotine
rating that they have provided (o the United Statzs Federal Trade Commission. Manafactwers of
smokiess tobacco ate required to file a nicatine repon forall brands, sub-brands, and genecic
‘unbranded products, and these requirements are specified in reetion 660.103 of the regulations.

“The regulations also cequire shat maaufucrurery of cigarattes acd smokeless sobucco products
provide the identity ofall aided constituents in each brand, sub-brand or geveric unbranded
igurette or snrolclexs tobuceo product linied in descending order by uheir weight, measure, oF
rumerienl count. Euch added constivent is to be zenorted by Its chemical aunte and chertical
abstract CAS number if available. The reporting forma Cor aldes constituents iy contained in
-xectton 660,400 of the enclosed regulations,

eLZZZ89902
