study design and endpoints examined, the reported correlations among the various exposure
indices canged from moderate to high. Because of the many limitations of these studies,
inconsistencies among studies is not unexpected. Significant differences in uptake, distribution,
metabotism, and excretion of nicotine are found among individuals (Benowitz e¢ al, 1982), and
thus cotinine levels in biological flvids vary among individuals exposed under identical
conditions, In those studies in which urinary cotinine is used as the measure of exposure,
cotinine concentrations are often assessed from a single urine sample, which may not adequately
represent Ibe exposure period in question. For studies in which ambient air concentrations of
nicctine serve as the exposure measure, it has been shown that air concentrations vary within the
same room; intake will depend on the location of the individual relative to the smoker, the
exposure duration, and the physical characteristics of the exposed individuals (¢.g., activity level
and corresponding bresthing rate).

2.5.3 Reliability and Validity of Self-Reported Smoking Status

In a test-retest study of the reliability of subjects’ report of their own smoking habits, Lee (1987)
found that responses from 93% of 166 subjects regarding current or past smoking status were
consistent with responses to the same questions asked five years earlier.

‘A number of studies have used biomarkers to validate self-reported smoking status (Conltas et
at, 1989; Haley er al., 1989a; Cummings er a/., 1990; Riboli eral. 1990; Perez-Stabie ev al.,
1992}. Self-reported nonsmokers who appear to be smokers on the basis of biochemical
measurements are generally considered “deceivers” of their true smoking status. fn a summary of
11 studies in which questionnaire responses regarding smoking status were compared with
cotinine of nicotine messurements (Perez-Stable et al., 1992), the estimated misolassification
races (self-reported nonsmokers with elevated cotinine or nicotine levels indicative of active
smoking) ranged from zero in a small study to nearly 10% in a sample of nonsmokers from &
clinical sening. These studies are summarized in Table 2.6, Misclassification of an individual
who is a smoker as a nonsmoker may increase the apparent relative risk of smoking-related
diseases in nonsmokers, However, Perez-Stable ct af. (1992) suggest that most smokers
misclassified as nonsmokers are very light smokers or occasional smokers who binge.

2.6 Exposure Prevalence and Determinants
2.6.1 Lawoduction

Because the various health endpoints reviewed in other chapters of the overall ETS assessment
‘may be the result of either acute or chronic exposures, both present and past patterns of exposure
are of interest and information on both is included here. Studies of the prevalence of ETS
exposure and its demagraphic and social determinants suramatized below (Sections 2.6.2 and
2.63) should be considered representative only of the general time periods covered by the study.
‘Smoking prevalence, smoking behaviors, and other factors contributing to exposure to ETS have
continued to change as smoking customs have changed in the U.S., with a number of important
changes occurring within the past few years, Thus, it is expected that the number of individuals
exposed to ETS and the pattems of exposure have also changed over time (see Section 2.6.4).

Exposure Measurement and Prevalence
Page 2-25

panze0s20z
