eee eee

en a ed

PROJECT NUMBER: 1752

PROJECT TITLE: Opt Leal Spectroscopy of Tobaceo and Smoke
PROJECT LEADER: R.A. Fenner

PROJECT COVERED: July, 1986

I. Multicomponent Smoke Analysis

Changes have been made in the hardware associated with che research
oriented FI-IR procedure. The swoking machine has been disassembled so chat
Modification can be made to the syringe to reduce dead volume and to permit
flushing between puffs. ' A new fixed pathlength cell has been obtained on
loan from Infrared Analysis (Ossining, NY). This cell has a longer
pathlength “(6 meter vs 4.5 meter) than the previous cell and has larger
optical elements. Both features have resulted in enhanced sensicivity.
Reference spectra have been acquired on a number of molecules reported
in cigarette smoke. These spectra are being used to help identify the Large
mumber of limes observed in the high resolution (0.24cm-') spectrum of
cigarette smoke and to aid in selecting preferred spectral regions for
quantitation. :
5

TI. Addition of Lactic Acid to Burley Tobace

A comparative analysis of the acid, base and neutral TPN fractions from
burley cigarettes vith and without added lactic acid has been completed by
Dr. F. Hsu. The results showed no significant differences in these
fractions between the test and control cigarettes. An evaluation of the gas
phase smoke is being considered to further investigate the reported
smoothing effect of the lactic acid on burley sucke.

III. Simultaneous Determination of Gaseous Ammonia 5
Mainst: d_ Si dest: s

The SS/MS gaseous ammonia analyses of the 15 single blend component
cigarettes from the North Complex Panel have been coupleted. ‘These data are
now being evaluated and compared vith soluble ammonia and total ammonia (ion
chromatographic procedure) data. A special internal report will be issued
Tegarding the results.

A study was conducted on the influence of heating the inlet systens
used in the SS/M5 gaseous ammonia analysis. While heating vas observed to
have very little effect on sidestream delivery, the per puff mainstream
delivery increased by an order of magnitude as the inlet temperature was
increasad from anbient to -120°C Ie is thought that the heating 1s shifting
the NHy/,,/MH,+(1) equilibrium. In the sidestream measurement, the smoke is
moved “ftough the Inlet system at much greater velocity and the residence
time would not be sufficient for the temperature effect.  Furcher
investigation is planned.

2660C80002
