Om i BR BP Tees ee

PROJECT NUMBER:
PROJECT TITLE:
PROJECT LEADER:
PRRIOD COVERED:

2. MERIT?

4024
Japan Product Development
©. B, Altizer
October, 1987

A. Qhiective: Develop a 7 mg product for Japan, with full flavor
response, to achieve parity vith Mild Seven smokers.

Results:

Results of PMI tests 1, 2, and 3 indicate that the

Mount blend continued to test well. PMI and Danchi test results
indicate that there are no apparent advantages to using a plastic

‘fluted filter for this product, PMI Test IV, consisting of Merit
‘tv (7 mm Ca/14 mm CA with carbon filter, and Merit Aftercut)
versus Mild Seven Lights and Caster is in progress. Results are
expected by December 1.

c. Plans:

The ‘factory trial hao been tentatively scheduled for mid-

Noverber. Production startup is scheduled for early December.

Product

xr. 2M LiGaTs "

launch scheduled for March 1986.
#

A. Gbiective: To determine the corisumer acceptability of changing
the PM Lights blend to Mount blend at 11 mg tar. % test
econuner preference for white versus cork tipping.

B. Bagulte:
on both

The Danchi Panel Test results of cork vs. white tipping
PM Lights and Mount at 11 mg showed the PM Lights product

with white tipping to be the highest rated product. In general,

smokers
Smokers

Preferred tipping paper the color of their own brand.
Perceived cork tipped cigarettes as being stronger and

more irritating. Results of PMI testing (PM Lights va Mount 11

mg both with white tipping) are expected mid-Novenber.’
©. Plans: Further development plans will he based on the results of
PMI testing. ,

TZ. LARK_opgirzaTroy

A. Qbtectiva: 0 optimize the subjective acceptance of the Lack
family while retaining the American blended cigarette character.

B. Resuits:

Models of optimized Lark and Lark Milds were submitted

for Danchi Panel Testing. Results are expected by mid-November,
Additional blend development has been done, resulting in a new
blend model for another Danchi Test.

@, plans:
blend wi

fark Milds and Pull Flavor Lark prototypes with the new
11 be Danchi Panel tested mid-Noverber. Further

development work is dependent upon Danchi Test results.

Fr

T2SAT T1002
