2ae 208th

Studies investigating
Purported Associations: Invatving Induced
Abortions, Electromagnetic Fields,
and Environmental Tobacco Smoke

A Introduction

‘Thera is no quostion that the position of public health regulators is extremely
inconwsten! in terms of public health policy decisions based on
enktemiaiogical studies which show weak assoctations. in order to illustraie
these inconsistencies, three such gaseciations will be briefly axamined;
namely, the association between Induced abortion and breast cancer, the
association between electromagnetic fields (EM) and chitdhood leukemia,
and the association between environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) and tung
cancer,

8. Current Status
4. Induced Abortion and Breast Cancer

There have been 33 reports which have explored possible
association between induced abostion and breast cancer. Of thes2 33,
28 publications - which represent 21Jindependant studies - provids
data which are sultable for inclusion in a meta-analysis. Such a mate-
analysis has recently been carried out (Brind, J., Chinchill, V. Mt
Severs, W. 8., and Summy-Long, 4., “Induced abortion as an
independent risk factor for breast cancer: a comprohensive review and
meta-analysis," Journal of Epidemiology and Community Health, 1-15,
1996). These 21 studies were comprisad of 10 atudias from the US, 4
from Japan, end ? from Europe (Russia, Yugoslavia, France (2),
‘Sweden ang Norway, aly, and the Netherlands). The earliest of these
studies was published in 1957 (Japan), and the latest in 1996 (USA),
‘The resuits of this meta-analysis gave a pooled odds ratle (OR) or 1.3
which was significant st the 95% level (95% Cl, 1.2-1.4).

2. EMF und Chilhood Leukemia

‘There have been numerous spitemiotogical studies which have:
Published associations between varius types of electromagnetic: ‘elds
and various disease endpoints. However, the only set of studies ~fich
appears to give consistent resutls involvos the association of magnetic
fields (ae determined by various. techniques) and childhood leukemia,
Eleven auch studies had been pubtished through 1992; however, no
mets-analysis appears to have been carried out on hese studies at
this time. Four of the studies were carried out In the US, three ir tha
‘UK, and one in Sweden. Al this time | am unable to ascertain the
location of the remaining three studies. The first report was: Published
in 1979, and the fast in 1991, As pointed out above, no meta analysis

Pin oR BITONTa o+- — TeaewoReN Lee be te 20 se te Iva on at pe. atrse

£e9en8e902
