Maathly Summary Novesber 1988:

Mathematica) Mode) of Flavor Chanber:

Work continues in developing a model which includes hoch smoldering and
puffing conditions. Experimental values for the kinetics of
devolatilization have been included, but now seem somewhat too fast:when
incorporated into the model. Further work has been undertaken to reduce the
CPU requirements on the new Multiflow computer. Currently the CPU is below
our expectations for this computer. Further temperature measurements will
ke made in the flavor chamber to better define the boundary conditions for
the model development.

Iron Carbide /CO Reduction:

As reported last month mixtures af iron carbide with activated carbon
reduce CO evolution during corbustion. There is an 80% reduction in CO
evolved from PN 142 compared with the Stackpole activated carbon starting
material. A 10% addition of Fe,C, reduced Cp by 89% compared to this same
Stackpole starting material. This activated’ carbon with a 1% addition of
Fe}0, reduced the CO by 65% while J 18 addition of Fe,C; reduced the CO by
758. Iron carbide by itself produces significantly less CO than any of the
carbons or the iron caxbide/carbon or iron oxide/ carbon mixtures.

on Carbide ag @ Heat Source:

Experinents were performed to determine if the source of iron oxide or
surface area of the iron oxide has any influence on the burn properties of
the carbide. Carbidization of iron oxides from several difvereat vendors
was carried out at 300 ¢ using a mixture of CO/R,. In all cases pellets
were produced which had good busa properties. Ignition temperatures as
measured by DSC vere around 360 C. All samples exhibited cracks after
cerbidization and broke quite easily

It was found that pellets which had between 10-18% additions of carbon
had impzoved mechanical properties and a density in the range of 48 -56% of
theoretical, The burn proparties of these compacts were improved with a
longer time of burn as well as more uniform burn throughout the pellet.
Experiments with a 38 addition of pectin to a mixture ez S08 iron oxide anc
108 carbon displayed tha best mechanical etrength efter carbidization.

A variety of other preparations were attempted. Pellets of iron were
mot able te be carbidized. Tt was noted from TGA analysis that most of the
time for the reaction of iron oxide to iron carbide in Co/H, mixtures is
involved in the reduction reaction, About 30 minutes is required for the
reduction and only about 2 minutes for the carbidizetion at 300 C. atteapts
were made at preparing the material only using only CO. This reaction was
not complete after 3 hours and was not pursued further.

Other experiments explored other sources of iron oxide prepared in,the
lab. ‘These oxides synthesized in the lap had surface areas around 10m /g
while commercial sources typically had 8m /g. Carbides had values around
26m /g. One oxide from a hydrated iron oxide gave a value of 80m /g.

xRay analysis of the carbides reveals mostly iron carbide with a peak
due to unreacted Fe,0,. Densities of the carbide as prepared ky the above
method using izon oxide has a value of §.98g/on .

ggpzetozoz
