CHARGE NUMBER: 6908

PROGRAM TITLE: SMOKE CONDENSATE STUDIES
PERIOD COVERED: NOVENBER 1 - 30, 1985
PROJECT LEADER: A, D. KINSER

DATE OF REPORT: DECEMBER 2, 1985

I,  NETROSAMINES

Aicottne=N'-oxide (NN'O) has been prepared for testing 35 A pyrosyn=
tnetic precursor of tobacco specific attrosanines (TSHA) [1]. The product
need appears to be a combination of cis and trans, ters. This product
cee pplied to genetically low alkaloid burley f11)er (Q5BUV) and the wain~
was 20P Ue) smoke from handnade cigarettes was analyzed for TSNA content.
stream We devels were greater than those measured for the untreated contro),
the primary difference attributable to the NN'O was 3 dramatic increase in MS
oe eae“ Fermation of NNN was not expected to be the preferred reaction
path for AN’, but these results Indicate that NN'D may be an alkaloid
progenitor of pyrosynthes!zed NNN.

Cigarettes made fron filler treated with tocopheryl acetate (TA) were
analyzed for MS TSNA content this month [1]. ISNA results obtained from
inves different TA-treated fillers have shown much more smoking-to-smoking
variability than is usually observed. Whether this 1s due to uneven coating
during the spraying process or an instabt] {ty of the TA after application 1s
Got known, but studies of this potential inhibitor have been suspended.

Filler and MS TSNA values for new lots, of genetically low alkalotd
(LA) bright (Br) and burley (Bu) tobacco were determined [2], Results from
these analyses were compared with TSWA levels of previous lots of LA Br and
for Filler results for the two LA Bu samples were in reasonable agreement ,
but MS NNN and NMC deliveries were significantly greater for the newer lot.
The newer LA Br sample had substantially lower filler TSNA Vevels, with some
Feduetion in HS SAN and NAT, These results are consistent with the greater
than expected Hs TSNA delivery obtained for the recent machine-made low alka
Joid blends.

Investigations of apparent artifactual formation of TSM during smoke
collection hava been continued [3]. Increases. i collection time and
sO ect an sd vevels both yielded increased TSMA levels: ‘Addition of
nornicotine to the bubbler traps resulted in increases ta all three TSHA,
Suggesting that the observed artifacts may be due to transnitrosation reac-
Suggestimy periments ta evaluate the possibility of teansnitrosation ia the
tions trap enviroment are planned, in additian to tests ‘of alternate
pupitors and « determination of the effect of trap pH.

£696280002
