invastigations on the Muragoni nots of Ciqarotte, smoke

Griffiths, 20

Mutations are events on the molecular level in a cell resulting
ina change of the genetic code. Because of the fundarental nature of
these phononena a wide varisty of cells can be used for an investi~
gation of this kina.

For practical reasons it is essential to choose a type of cell
and a genetic code that is capable of producing an easily observable
cheracterization.

The choice of a mould (Aspergillus nidwlans) was dictated by
these recuiresents.

Tae method is based on the suitability of SeAzaguanine as a -
nucleic acid precursor for mutant strains of this mould, whereas the .
wild strain camnor utilise this compound.

Consequently, nadia containing 8-Azaguanine do not support the
coiony formation of the wild strain whereas mutants will form colonies.
Differential counts on complete and selective media gives directly
the mutation rate;

Introduce

Evidence has been presented by a number of scientists based on
epidenclogical surveys stating that cigarette smoking is connected
with certain respiratory disorders, in particular lung carcer. (1)
This fact has induced research into the phenomenon of cellular denage
caused by smoke. :

Malignant tissue is composed of cells with altered cellular
functions. ‘This can be regarded in sone vays aa a back-nutation of
differentiated cells tovards more primitive cells, Although this -~
model is only a very restricted one, there is some evidence that a sa
number of chemical compounds vnich show mitagenic properties vhen
tested accordingly also display carcinogenic (initiating) activities
in animal teatss

Por this particular reason the question has been raised whether
or not mutagenic properties could be detected in smoke (or smoke
fractions) and if so, whether a quantitative estimation was possible.

A method for detecting mutagenic effects has been reported by
G. Morpugo (Ist. Super. Sanita. 2 1962,9-12). The method uses a strain
of Aspergitius nidulana, whose groveh is inhibited by 8-Azoguenine
incorporated in a growth medium, Caapek-Dox. The metaod is dsysndent
tion the fact that certain mutants of this strain are capable of grow-
ing on such a grovth mediws.

: 2501314899

(1) See TRO literature surveys.
