CTR PROGRESS REPORT HF 3Ub0R

‘Submit this form with Secoad Renewal only; do nol submit with a First Revewal,

1, Grant number 3160 2, Progress Period from_07/01/93 tor10/15/94
Period described in this reporn

3. Name of Investigator: Alexander Steven Whitehead

4. Title of Original Graat: Control of expression of the inflammatory serum
amyloid & apolipopratein.

5. Abstract of the Specific Aims as stated in the original application:

‘The original specific aims were defined within the overall goal of understanding and

manipulating SAA gene expression:

a. Defining the “environmental” factors that control SAA gene expression i.e.
cytokines and other natural mediator molecules.

b. Identifying intrinsic control elements in the expressed SAA superfamily genes,
particularly in the promoter regions, that determine transcriptional regulation by
factors defined in a

¢. Identifying control elements in SAA mRNA (eg. in the SUTR or 3°UTR) that
determine post-transcriptional processing (eg. polyadenylation) and the
wanslational efficiency of SAA mRNA.

4d. Studying the role of tfanslational enhancer elements in the 5° untranslated
regions of the A-SAA and C-SAA mRNAs in facilitating engagement by the
cellular translation apparatus and the consequent synthesis and export of
nascent SAA molecules.

¢. Determining the intracellular mechanisms whereby the dynamic changes in
SAA mRNA structure and stability and its availability for efficient qanslation are
coordinated

6, Report of Progress,
‘Attach to this form no more than 4 pages describing your progress in the last 18 months.

(Staple separately. Do not staple or affix this CTR Progress Report to the Application Form.)

7. List all publications (author, title and journaD resulting from the current CTR award
that contain a printed acknowledgment of CTR support.
For manuscripts, the designation "in press” means you have a prepriat: otherwise use
“accepted for publication by ...", “submitted for publication” or “ia preparation’.
Do nat list publications that do not acknowtedge CTR support.

Uhlar, C.M., Steel, D.M. and Whitehead, A.S, Expression of human constitutive serum
amyloid A (C-SAA) mRNA in hepatic and non-hepatic cell lines. In preparation.

50718643
