CHARGE NUMBER? 1620

PROJECT TITLE: ELECTROPHYSLOLOGICAL STUDIES,
pERIO0 COVERED: NOvENBER 1 = 30, 1985
PROJECT LEADER: F. 8. GULLOTTA

DATE OF REPORT: DECEMBER 4, 1985

WRITTEN 8Y: cos wes | UNO

TL. EVENT-RELATED POTENTIALS ERPS)
A. Difference Test(ng Employing Cognitive ERPS

In order to determine the effects of varying stimulus discrtimin=
ability and jnter-stimtus—intervals (ISis)_ on the cognitive ERP, experiments
employing auditory Seinuli have been initiated. Three [Sts (Let. 5.3 end
Tiel seconds) and two Tevels of discriminabi lity (easy ys difftcutt) are
being utilized.

fo date, results fron one super suggest that with respect, 6?
stimulus discriminability oUF previous findings have been replicated. That
Teimae each of the Sis testedy evious gattive component elicited 20 the easy
{er Maination ts larger than the ‘component elicited to the mere aifficult
Giecrimination. Perhaps even more mporesting, however, are the date with
Crapect. to the various 1515. Me re erasis the traditional finding has been
cestemmed in that the cognitive Mymponent appears te only be eltcited in
camponse to target stimuli: Howesh+ ne Isis a cogettive component is
resttred vo standard stimull as eer ee target stimult. Under hens condt=
elicitey geens that the passage Of time (1,e., absence of stimulation) serves
tome background against. which, feargets a5 well as standards 37 compared.
th fact, under the Yong ISL Mich yon, the experiment appears take on the
Maracteristics of a two-target experiment, with the absence of stimulation
charang as the standard stimulus rer ghe standard and target stinylt serving
Sernign and tow probability eargets respectively. These findings are
8 iygous to those obtained 10 Nets aiscrimination experinents which
Foquire the use of Tong IIs: Nrererore, due to the implications of these
Cavings for. the interpretation of data fron flavor discrimination expert-
ments, our plans are to test at least one additional ‘subject utilizing the
Buditory cognitive ERP paradiga in order to farther investigate thts phenom-
enon.

FECTS OF COp ON CIGARETTE SMOKE FLAVOR

1. THE EF 2.

Te date, tree adgitional subjects nave completed discrimination
training and are currently being Tutested.2 Retesting of these subjects
tratnne Toopleved by the middle of eee first quarter of 1986-

TIL. REFERENCES

1, Wannamaker, 1. Notebook No. 8262, pp. 64-121-
B Mayes, C. 5+ Notebook No 3180, pp. 122-126, 131-197

SzZ96Z280002
