CHARGE NUMBER: 4009
PROJECT TITLE: DEVELOPMENT SMOKE STUDIES.
PROJECT LEADER: B. L. GOODMAN

PERIOD COVERED: SEPTEMBER, 1985

Project Stow
Objectives:

Develop the technology to reduce or mask objectionable odor of sidestream smoke,
Develop a subjectively acceptable cigarette with reduced sidestream visibitity.

si

Flavor work, including distinctive flavors, is in progress for the 8.5 mg. tar flavor
tow model with drastically reduced sidestream. A model of this type with regular
aftercut is currently under test with the O/C smoking panel. This test should give
further guidance in the flavor work.

The full-flavor model, with the tar level currently at 11.5 mg., will be tested by
the M/C smoking panet the week of October t4th.

‘Two tests of sensory evaluation and aerosol measurements of sidestream smoke
‘were completed this month. In both, the Flavor Development sidestream smoke
Panel eveluated the sidestream odor of cigarettes in the standard test (7 descrip-
tors, 10 point scale, paired comparison format), fotlowed by aerosol measurements
with the TSI Piezobalance.

The first test dealt with extruded rod cigarettes without wrapper and with standard
KC 147-1 and Ec 18145 low sidestream MgO wrapper. While the odor test did not
show any significant differences between the tested cigarettes, the aerosol measure-
ments of the unwrapped rod gave much higher values. The low sidestream wrapper
compared to the standard wrapper gave the expected 40-50% reduction in sidestream
‘aerosol concentration.

In the second test, four cigarettes made with wrappers containing graded levels

of MgO at two basis weights were evaluated. The results showed the lowest level
of sidestream aerosol concentration for the wrappers with 12% MgO. Ih the case
of the 45 g/m* basis weight wrapper the low sidestream aerosol concentration

was due to a true decrease in sidestream delivery, while for the 25 g/m? wrapper
the effect was due to the combination of a smalier decrease in sidestream delivery
and a significant decrease in static burn rate. The sensory evaluation showed,
surprisingly, higher ratings in harshness for the model with the lowest aerosol con-
centration, the one made with 45 g/m? wrapger.

Both sensory tests point to a high contribution of the wrapper to sidestream smoke
‘odor, higher than the weight ratio wrepper to filler would suggest, and higher than
Previousty thought.

SZE9TTTO0z
