Mortality from lerge number of diseases has been reported by
epidemiologists to be significantly higher among regular cigarette smokers
‘than smong Ton-auokers or auong pipe and cigar smokera,

Peptic ulcer, which term is understood to include both gestric
and duodenel ulcer, is one of these “diseases” (or disease pairs), Bammond
and Horn! reported the "observed deaths" from this pair of isesses, lumped
together, to be shout four times the "expected" among regular amckers of
cigarettes gnly, while Dorn reported the corresponding ratio fron hia data
to be 2.83." Both figures have been construed as reflecting a strong
association between ulcer mortality and smoking, Data on lcer incidence
in relation to snoking have not, to our mowledge been reported. It is
also unfortunate that the epideniclogic data do not permit, a separation of
the tvo clinical entities.

Tt is widely recognized that such associations cannot of
‘themselves show 8 causal relationship, ‘They cell for further exploration,
especially ty clinical and experimental methods, “to determine, in the case
of each associated @iseage, whether smoking actually ta a contributory fector
in any sense, great or small, major or mincr, direct or indirect, or vhether
the association is acciiental or incidental end therefore meaningless to
etiology. "3

Since smoking habits or practices my be reflections or indice~
‘tions of some constellation of constitutional factors, @ serioua question
arises vhether some of these same congtitutional qualities may themselves
Fredispose to morbidities or disease.

Peptic ulcer is an especially interesting disease (or pair of
@isenses) for study in this respect. The physiological aspects of weer
etiology, though not fully eluctdated, are better understood than the
etiology of cancer.” Hence experiments can be devised to observe viether
nleotine or snoking influence these physiological factors, Moreover, it is
videly believed that peptic ulcer is to some considerable degree a
“psychoscatic” Asease, in which atvess of constitutdoually-determined
modes of reaction to stress are prominent.© Tt appears entirely reasonable,
therefore, to entertain the possibility that auoking practices my merely be
indicators of the presence of such constitutional modes of stress-reaction
without entering actively into the etiologies). pleture.

The literature alresdy contains aubetantial hints thet smoking
my, in certain cases, even modify stress reactions in such prediaposed
persons to the extent of reducing the effects of a constitutional,
Predisposition to stress-related diseasea.!
