DRAFT

Breakdown of prospective studies on. LRI:

Part 2: Overview of major. longitudinal studies.

Breakdown of prospective studies on LR!
Overview of major longitudinal studi...
1. SixCitles study, U.S... eee
2. South Wales allergy study, (Miakely, Burr et al. 1968).....
3. Christchurch Heallh and Development Survey:...
1. Esst Boston: (Catey, Weiss et al, 1906), (Barr, Weiss at al. 1992)...
2. BorcBies study. (Speizer, Ferris et al. 1880).
3. Six clties shuly cid. (Fertis, Dockery et al. 1983).
Bibliography: seen

Overview of major longitudinal studies:

1, Six-Cities study, U.S.

‘A iong-term prospective sludy was started in 1974 primarily to aesesa the ceeplratory
healh effects of outdoor sir pollution. Because of the potential confounding effects of
‘passive kmoking, 28 well as independent interest in ita heath effects, iformation on
Exposure to environmental tobacco smoke was routinely gathered at regular
‘examinations of shudy participants and haa been the subject of several publications
‘stemming from this study, (Ferris, Ware ot al. 1985; Berkey, Ware et ol. 1886)

In addition a number of the articles published trom this study discuss the role of ETS
along wilh other pollutante (News, Dockary et al. 1991) or as contiibutors te indoor air
Dollition (specificaly TPM) (Gockery, Spelzer et al. 1989).One paper also discusses
the potential cole that exposure to ETS may have in racial and gender ditfgrences in
‘population risks, (Gold, Roznitziy ot al. 1983). One of the more recent pubications
rom thia study also examined the role played by ée utara exposure compared to
subsequent expowure, (Wang, Wypi{ et al. 1894)

“The main publications tram this study, the atudy dealgn and a brief diacusaion of he
Findings ‘eporied with sespact to ETS ere outined below. The references with
relevant data on ETS are discussed in more detai in the section above, (see Faris,
et al, 1985; etc...)

Aims:

‘The most complate description of the original study design is given in Ferris ot
ai, 1979(Ferris, Speizer et al. 1979). Briefly. the study was set up to
Investigate the effects of diflerant air pollution events on childhood respiratory
health. The six cities selected ware selected to represent a range of ax
‘quality based on historically reported concentrations of SO, and particulate
matter. These were:

‘Steubenville and Mingo Junction, OH

ocemand nN procoee bndee ROE! Page 37 of 20

ogdseesosz
