CTR FROGRESS REPORT
(Do not submit this form with a FIRST RENEWAL)

Grant number_3299 Progress Period from_12/01/92 49; 11/30/93

Name of Investigator: Yuri Bushkin, Ph.D.

Title oF Original Gra

: Expression and Function of p2a-Free MHC Class 1.
if

Abstract of the Specific Aims as stated in the original applicatio

Functional activities of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules are
related to their unique capacity 10 interact with a number of different peptides and cellulae
proteins. 2-microglobulin (82m) which extensively interacts with the external domains of
MHC class I motecutes and stabilizes their conformation, can also block potential sites of
interaction with other membrane proteins and restrict their membrane mobility. We propose 10
study the biological significance of a conformationally different form of MHC class | molecules
not associated with B2m (B2m-free class I heavy chains) which have altered membrane
mobilities, interactions with other proteins and, therefore, functions. In addition te MHC class I,
the CDB molecule is involved in immunoregulation. The CD8 molecule is expressed on the
surface of cytotoxic and suppressor T cells and can down-regulate functional activities of T cells.
Membrane-bound CD8 molecules can be released in a soluble form(s) in response to lymphocyte
activation. Our original data suggest that scluble forms of CDE molecules can bind to B2m-tree
class 1 heavy chains on activated T cells and negatively regulate the activation and proliferation
of these cells. Specifically, we propose to study;

1, The function of B2m-frec class I heavy chains.

2. The biochemical characterization of membrane phosphoproteins associated with Bm-
free class I heavy chains

List any publicatians (author, title and journal) resulting from the current CTR award
that contain a printed acknowled; 'R support.
For manuscript, the designation “ia press" means you have a preprint: otberwise use
“accepted for publication hy ...", "submited for pUblication® or “in preparaion”
Do not list publications that do not acknowledge CTR suppor,

4, Demaria, 8. and Y, Busbkin, 1993. CD8 and B2-microglobulin-free MHC class class 1
molecules in T cell immunoregulation. ft. J, Clin, Lab. Res. 23: 61-69

2. Demaria, S., R. Schwab, S. R. S. Gottesman, and Y, Bushkin. 1993. Soluble B2-
mictoglobulin-free class I heavy chains are released from the surface of activated and
Jcukcmia cells by a metalloprotease. Accepted for publication by J. Biol. Chem.

3. Matko, J., ¥ Bushkin, T. Wei, and M. Edidin. 1993, Clustering of class 1 HLA molecules
‘on the surface of a ted and transformed human cells. Submitted for publicatiun in J.
Immunol,

4. Demaria, S. and Y. Bushkin, 1993. Soluble CD8a- and CD8q/B-multimers bind to human
activated T and B cells. In preparation.

Report of Progress (attach to this form no more than four (4) pages, please.)

(Staple separately, Do not staple o¢ affix this CTR Progress Report to the Application Form.)
rearoo) Doe

§0716386

