Propylparaben

Background: Propylparaben is a white or colorless erystelline
fold which io eolubie oe alcohol, most oils, and sufficieatly
seagpte in water to accomplish fungistatic action (arctanders
22F8 sep TobviParaben is prepared by eateri fying p-hydroxybenzoic
scid with propanol in excess in the preaence’ of ay stay catalyst,
(ize, Sulfuric acid}. The acid is then neutralized with edie
hydroxide and crystallized by cooling (CIR, 1934).

Synonyms: 4-hydroxybenzoic acid proply ester;
+ PFopyl p-hydroxybenzoate;
Nipasol; Propylparasept
PEMA Number: 2951

CAS Registry Number: 9
Couneii of Europe Number: 679
Fapirical Formula: ¢, 0m ,0,

Molecular Weight: 188.37

Melting Point: 97°¢

363

fhe Parabens, which are used in over 13,200 formulations, are the
Rost commonly used antimicrobial agente and preservatives In
STepetics (CIR, 1904); they act by causing damage to the cyto-
Ponmede Membrane of microorganisms. They are found in prokeccs
agiaing 2kins hair, scalp, lips, micosae (oral, ocular, vaginas} ,
gipdige and naila, Parabens are stable and nonvolatile, cease no
discoloration or hardening, and act as a preservative ct Gon
Seacentrations (Neidig and Burrell, 1944). They are used eo
coolers, reay Of gua binders in cosmetic creams, lotions, and
poecere,, Parabens may be used in dentifrices as they have en
easeptic effect on the oral mucosa. Parabens preagrve proveins
prevate Greams, stabilize hydrogen peroxide in bleach, anh
Prevent fat and vegetable oils from becoming rancid (haleem and
pgartss 1974). | According to industry submissions to fpr tn
acel. Propylparaben is used in 5868 product. formulations ata
Daximun use concentration of 25% (FDA, 1981}, Pazabens hove. been
gins since 1924 in pharmaceutical products (Sabalitechha 3930).
Combinations of parabens (i.e. methylparaben together oath
propyiparaben) are more active against. microorgani
individual ester (Boehn and Maddox, 1972). Pacahen
been used as preservatives at maximum levels seldom exceeding 18
in Suppositories, anesthetics, eyewashes, pills, syriec, weighe-
{iF Folutions, injectable solutions, and contraceptives (cir,
1984). Other uses of parabens are in textiles at antifungal
ane ne ants seeetsns and photographic emulsions, in bone qiues,
Maan? Antitermentation agents in malt iNeidig and Burredi.
i944). The possible average daily intake of parabens ce ‘approxi-
ee late oe ogne lea for infants and 4 to 6 mg/kg for pereoh aged
two years or older (CIR, 1984).

TSTPObLe
