INDOOR AIR QUALITY IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS
VOLUME Ir
L, Sheldon, . Zelon, J. Sickles, ¢. Eaton, and T. Hartwell

fhe second of two studies of indoor
pir quality in public buildings carries ott by the us.
enyixonmentel Protection Agency in resporee of Public and
Cengressional concern. A total af 19 buildings vere studied in
fhe Program. A report on the first four buildings is peing
Published simultaneously with this report’ Which deals vith the
last six buildings investigated.

ghis Project Summary vas developed by EPA's Environmental,
Monitoring syatems Laboratory, Resesren Triangle Park, Nc, to
documenter in snaings of the tesearch project thar ere turly
Socumented in a separate report of the’ socc title. (see Project
Report ordering information at back.)

In F¥ 1982 and again in F¥ 1: 83, Congreas mandated that the
U.S. Environmental Protection Age cy (EPA) carry out. stud,
indoor air quality, studies vere focused on volatile organic
compounds (VOCs) for weral reasons: 1) voce include a number of
farcinogenic and mutagenic species {hencen chlorofora,
tetrachioroethylene, etc.); 2) little was own at the time about
human exposure to these compounds: and 3) methodology had
recently be Geveloped to measure these compounds at
environmental levels. Because these compounds were being
gxtensively studied in private homes in Epnta ongoing Totat
Exposure Assessment Methodology (TEAM) Study (Wallace 1967;
Pellizzari 1987a,b; Handy 1987), the study concentrated on
buildings rather than homes, Buildings upece People spend long
Periods of time were ected for study: schools, homes for the
elderly, hospitals, and office buildings. The: buildings also
contain populations (children, the sick and the elderly) that may
be more sensitive to alr pollutants.

he first included measurenants in four buildings (one school,

report oF ernstding. and two hones for tha elderiy,

Oand iey neat seeay, 2h EPA Research Report centted
2 is now available (sheldon et aie

repelg, * SeParate Project Sunmary haw bean woreec’ for that.

Feport.

hE Pecond study included six buildings (a hespital, tuo
office buildings, two homes for tha elderly, and an institute for
sreitrea ged Studies). The final report fof ohee’ atudy is
antitied This Project

Second study only.
a

668bL228
