1
RESEARCH PROPOSAL ON THE MECHANISMS OF NICOTINE AND OTHER
BITTER TASTANTS

Submitted by Leo G. Abood. Departemnt of Pharmacology, University of Rochester

‘The initial active stiraulus in vertebrate taste reception initiates in modified eptithelial cells
of the lingual taste buds The taste cells are clustered inte groups of about 50-150 cells,
and detect four basic taste qualities: saltiness, sweetness, sourness, or binemess. A single
taste cell responds to various stimuli, including a representative of one of the four taste
qualities (3). These receptor cells then transmit information conoeming the chemical macure
and concentration of the agent, via chemical synapses, to alter rates of firing of the primary
sensory nerve fibers. The excitalory-transducing mechanisms can be described in the
following general steps: (1) receptor-recognition of the stimulus by taste buds, (2) G
protein-coupled or disect ionic signal tranduction (3) transmission of the signals, via ionic
curtents and second messengers, to receptor synapses on the endings of cranial nerves VII
1X, and X , which project to the solitary tract of the medulla to synapse with a column of
cells in the solitary nucleus , (4) these gustatory cells then project ipsilaterally te both the
‘ventral postetior medial area of the thalamus, projecting to the cerebral cortex and to the
pontine taste area, which in tum projects to the limbic system and hypothalamus (1,2).

‘The taste buds associated with bitter substance, such as nicotine and other
alkaloids, are distributed both in the anterior and posterior regions of the tongue. In the
ameriorregion, taste buds are in fungiform papillae. These taste buds are innervaeed by the
chorda tymnpani nerve (3). In the posterior region of the tongue, taste buds are found in
circumvallate papillae that are innervated by the glossopharyngeal nerve. (4). Some foliate
and vallate taste buds are innervated by the glossopharyngeal nerve (5). The afferent axons
of cranial nerves VIS, IX, and X have their first synapse in the nucleus of the solitary tact
(NTS), ‘The gustatory subdivision of the NST receives primary sensory input from fibers
of the lingual branch of the trigeminal nerve in addition to the input from gustatory nerves
(©), Blectrophysiological recordings from these fibers show that the posterior region gives
greater responses to particular stineulii than the anterior region... It should be possible to
determine the presence and location of nACLRs and other receptors employing
immanohistochemical methods and/ar receptor binding studies.

‘The focus of the present proposal is to investigate the molecular mechanisms involved in
the taste perception of bitter tastants, such as nicotine and other alkaloids, Both receptor

£T2boeeceg
