PROJECT NUMAER: 1904

PROJRCT TITLE ‘Tobscen Physiology and Biochoenlstny’
PROJECT LEADER : D. J. AyervO. J. Patan
WRITUEN BY: S. Maik

FRRIOD COVERED ; December, 1991

LOW NICOTINE STUDY

‘A. Objective: ‘To imexigns the blochemlsty of the elcotine bloeyrahests petherey and
‘4p wwe this kvformtion to penarate tobacco plants with reduced nicotine levels.

1B, Results: The rovu frees 32 hydroponically stown Durley 21 todscco planks were
harvented and stored at -$0°C (1.2.4). Theae planes were harvested 3 days afer
topping. The everage weigh of roots from tha group of plants (group 32) was 159
(ams ccmpared 10 216 grams (group 31) and 262 grams (group 30), Ammonium
calphase extracis were prepared from tobacco roots and further fractionated trough
the Pheny! Sephatoes wage of purtticadon. Various condidlons to clute PMT sctvity
‘rom Phenyl Sepharose cofumes were investigated. However, none of these were
found to be superior 10 the procedures currently In use (3), PMT-acttve peak and tall
fractiona were pooled, dialyzed wad frozen at -BO°C, PMT-active samples from 8
property Phenyl Sepharoee column were bound to & lange DEAB Septuree
column, The PMT wea eluted off the DEAE Sepharove column andl adsorbed to the
AHS colums, ‘The PMT was cloted off the AHS column wih 1.5 M NaCl ond
finer concentmésd using a Coniricon 30s, Aliquots of the concotuniand PMT
reparation called Batch 7 have been frozen (4), Conditions for the use of HPLC for
purifying PMT er explored (5), The remuining Batch 6 samples have been
‘processed by HPLC and GPC (6),

Construction of chimeric. pluemids which could express tobscco Toot cDNA
sequences In aeilserae crteraation condiwed, Several cDNA fragmena that ae
overly expressed in tobscon rooUs but tack & poly A region were successfully Inserted
(n antisense orferaation in eho plant vector pYSTI (7.8). The DNA of thee
recombinamm plarnids is being prepared for use In tranafoeming tobacco. A tolal of
1S control traragenlc plants transformed with pBI121 wore generated, Of these 10
were Unraferred 10 the greenhouse for acclimatization, Addidona) plandes
Uuunaforeed with the ancivense constrocs p17.2A and piZA have boen generwed and
‘te belng prepared for erduation 10 the greenhouse, Shooss from tranaformants
Involving 10 additional mince conirocs have been tnneferred ‘© rocting medium
for regeneration of wiragenic tobacco burley-21 plant (9). Exploration of the
methodology tt udlizes eralbodiea for characierzation of proteins wed Isolation of
‘Benes was begun uning PET lbody (10)

C. Plame: Generate andibodies against 60 kD prosetn, Use PCR 10 leolane DNA,
sequences related to the putative PMT. Genero poritod PMT fracuon of Batch 1
and penerow eddliional arina acids quences of parudive PMT protein.

RGHLY CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
produced by Philip Morris...

court crderin

toa

Philip Morris v, ABC. This document

‘and its contents shal! not be used, shown or

distributed oxcapt as provided in the court's order.

G91-009H7, 31399928

