LABORATORIES BNERICAING 642-369

wore opserved to nave rough natreoats, uriee stains, soft Fecel and a hunched
appearance. AIT appeared £0 O° degressed or s1egneTy depressed goth fenstes
ae one mate were coed as DeiN ataxic ané one nate and one femate vere
Qpserves to have red stains On the nose anasar eyes. With tne exception of
jtaxia and soft Feces. thet cuintcal signs persisted‘ av aninals
throughout ene duration af the ‘eudy. on the morning of O8Y 3+ soft feces and
reg stwins on the nose and/or SNES ace observes in atT aniaas. One male was
wise soted te have 2 distended pdonen, and one female appeared ataxic. 8Y
the arterncon ubservation Bertod: the req stains on tne nase and/Or ayes tad
aisappeared in al¥ but one aninat (a fanaTe). The OENET Female wos found te
wave a dpstended apdonen at E15 trae, on the morning of Day fy 8 Feate
vias found dead. of the remaining aninais, both mates and the renatining female
veg ated as they had been the previous afternaan: SUSGAEIS aepressed.
Thunched, and having & rough cose ned urine stains. By tne oF terneee of gay 4.
the red statins on the nose anasor ayes had returned £0 alt animals. one nate
vas atanic ang nad @ aistended vygomen. wre rater s4gn was 2050 present 19
the remaining femate (EOWP wunening was no Tonger apparent): on Day 5, 27
signs persisted with tHE " gcand ate atso pecoming atente and the femsle
raving urine stains.

Hulti-Group Phase
initial body weights are presented in Table 18: A sumary of
clinical observations 1s presented in Table 78

‘ine inital body wenanes of the nares ranged From 168-2 to 225
anvie the Initial Dody wetants of the Females ranged from 199.9 to 138-9 9

The clintcal signs were #8 fortows: Group ¥ (1000 mg/tg/day): on Day te au
antenis appeared formal OF gay 2. urine stains were 0 fn al7 Dut one
ania (a femate) with the mates also being noted 2S having soft feces, ONY
fone wate had soft feces On pay 3, but avT aniaats 1 tnis qroup had ueloe
stains, After the Fourth doses ui aninats appeared to have rough coats,
though this was fot apparent jm one fenate unit] & hours postdose. Urine

SeSS2Iz8
