‘Sop at The een kins nary Schott Hegienc an Pb eh pratense
CAUSES
TH 9. ROTHICAN

‘The conceptual framework ior causes
prosented here ic intended newhar as a
teview nor an expansion of knowledge, but
rather as a viewpoint which bridges the gap
between metaphysical notions of cause and
basic epidemiologic parameters. The focus.
then, is neither metaphysics nor epidersol-
ogy, but the gulf between them. In the
same spirit a5 recent discussion on these
pages about definitions of basic epideni
logic corms such as rate {1}, common
Agreement on the conceptual interrelation
ship of causes may facilitate communica
tion ebout causes of illness.

A strong motivation for presenting this
scheme is the olten-heard confusion of two
important hut distinct epidemiologic
issues: confounding and effect. mudific.
tion, ‘These two properties of varial
have differenc areas of relevance 121. The
confounding property: is not au iat
characteristic of any variable. Confourcing
defined as distortion in an effect measure
intraduced by an extraneous variate, ce-
curs only ia the context of a particulsr
study, and the same variable which con-
Founds in one study may not confound the
same association in another study setting

Depactment of Epidemigy, Hanord Shoot of
Babe Henk 6 Banton Ase, Hosa, A
8,

To fact, the principles of good study design
may call for preventing a porentially con-
founding variable (ror: being confounding
tor example, by matching in the selection
of eubjects, On the other hard. effert moi

fication, defined as differing values ol the
effet measure at different levels of another
vanele. is an inberent characteristic of the
relationship oatween two causes of an
‘Thmeas (effect). This relationship is not
governed by the particulars of any study; it
is an onalterable fact of nature. Ta be sure,
the magnitude of effect modification de

pends on che seale of measurement of the
effect-—for example, a risk ratio which is
constant over age genecally implies a risk
difference which changes sith age. But it
has been proposed chat che risk difference
seale ig the appropnete seaie for assessing
effect moditicauon. other scaies represent.

ing metameters of the nsk d:ffecence which
Sistort to varying degrees the sssessinent of
effect modification (2). Effect modifiers
may or may not be confounders in a given
study, or thay may confound in some
studies but not in others. Conversely, con-
founders may or may aot be effect modifi
ers. The following discussion presemis a
scheme for the interreiationship of causes
which may provide a useful way for think-
ing about effect modification as a deserip-
tion of nature,

503244651

