7/23/87

Tatm. B._Maher Dat
From. NN, Smith/w. H. Bailey, Jr.

SubjectrTest Plan For Varinip Stem Testing at Ingersoti-Rand
Engineering Projact Number: BH44-0004

Project Scone:

The scope of this project is to evaluate the pressing
capabilities af the Ingersoll-Rand Varinip, Bepex V-Press, and
Black Clawson Stock Washer to determine their capacity, soluble
ang water removal capability, and amount of degradation
exhibited. The evaluation will be conducted on four stem types:
long stem {VST), short stem (SVST?, hammermilled stem, and
shredded stem.

Tesh Oblectives:

Determine the throughput capacity, water remaval capability,
soluble removal capability, and the amount degradation exhibited
for the Ingersoll-Rand Varinip press an shredded stem.

Background.

Table 1 shows the results required for the overall project. The
table basically summarizes the project scape. This information
has been requested by R&D for use in designing a new stem
processing facility. Data of this type exists for the
Ingersoll-Rand Varinip; however, it is for a Park 500 RL blend.
The Warinips are the type of press on Line III at Park 500, The
extraction requirements (solubles removed) are greater for the
extraction of only stem than they are for a Park 500 RL blend.

Test Method

Table 2 shows the parameters that will be investigated at the IR
facility. Only shredded stem will be shipped to IR te be used as
feedstock ta evaluate the press for capacity, water/solubles
removal, and degradation. Other stem types will not be attempted
because of the feeding problems that have occurred at Park S00
with high stem biends. Table 3 shaws the test conditions that
Will be conducted. They are indicated by the XXX symbol.
Parameter conditions may change on lecation depending on results.
Table 4 lists the measurements that will be taken to determine
the test objectives. Alsa indicated are how the measurements
will be determined and who will evaluate them. Samples that will
be analyzed at PM will be air #reighted.

eezsesrsor
