EYAL =

QUSERVATIONS:

CHRONIC DERMAL TOXICITY STUDY IN MICE

$45,000
Steaia - Charles River CD-1.
Groups ~ 1 control and 3 treated groups each consisting of
‘50 males and 50 females individuslly caged.
Solution to be placed on skin (c2ipped) and rubbed gently
with glass cod or pafated on non-clipped skin with a cenel's
heiz brush three times weokly (Monday, Wednesday, Friday).
Lifatine Study (all groups wi22 be sacrificed at such tine
when any group reaches 20 percent survival).
Eyamioe daily for generel health, special atteation to papil-
losaa and other skin lesions, individual body weights weekly,
Be food consuaption.

Physical examinations prior to onset and every 3 months,

Ophthalnological examtastions by vetertuary ophthalaologist
prior to caser aad at 6, 12 and 28 qonths.

Clinica? laboratory tests on 5 male and 5 female mice from
‘cantzol and highest dosage level at 26, 52-and 78 weeks
GS male and 5 female mice from lower levels will be examined
af effect observed in high dose animals).
Hematology - hemoglobin, hematocrit, total and dif
ferential counts.
Blood chemistry - urea nitrogen, glucose, SGPT, SGOT,
serun alkaline phosphatane.

Necropsy ~ complete on ail mice vith organ eights on brain,
gouads, heart, kidneys, liver, spleen, (body weight).

Histopathology ~ complete oa 10 walea and 10 feaales fron
the control and high dosage group; application efte of all
aninals from a2l groups; examination extended to other groups
froa sase nuaber of animals if indicated; clasues from all
other animals to be saved for possible future examination,

Tissues to be examined - adrenals, aorta, bone uarrov, brain
Gerebrum, cerebellum and pons}, caecum, coloa, esophagus, eye,
gonad, heart, kidney, Liver, lung, lymph node (cervical sad
mesenteric), muscle, optic nerve, pancteas, parathyroid,
peripheral nerve (sciatic), pituitary gland, prostare/uterus,
salivery glond (submaxillacy), skin (exposed, non-exposed),
soall intestine (duodenum, jejunum and tleun}, spinal cord,
spleen, sternum, stomach (cardia, fundus, pylorus), tayroid
gland, trachea, urinary bladder aad any grosyly abnormal
tissue.

Szesopbeo2
