ML

nt,

Ww.

CHARGE MaER : 1503
PROGRAN TITLR. + Modified Smoking Materials

PERIOD COVERED: Jaouary 1-31, 1982

PROJECT LEADER: G. D, Kerit

F CLASS TOBACCO (S$. E. Wrenn)!

The objective of this eaudy is to develop 2 thermal and/or chemical treatment
ro soften the CT dust in order te reduce equipment wear during Formation of
slurey for spaying on strip or coating onto Rk. Laboratory studies with a
bench scale steam pressurized cooker and the pilot plant Venger food cooking
extruder indicate that such trestments are sufficient to soften the CT and
facilitate irs honcgenization. The exvraction of CT with water prior to the
stean treatment or the addition of cellulase (14) or other chemical additives
improves the homogenizavion of CT further using conventional mixers (refiners
ete). Such treatments produce a slurty having film forming properties and a
lover viscosity. Attempts to optimize the pilot treatments are now being
made in cooperation with Project 1307 personael.

WATER EXPANDED TOBACCO (x.

Sun, H. Shulleeta)2.3

The nechanisa studies aimed st identifying the mode of tobacco expansion by

the HET treatment are continuing. Chemical data shous a reduction in carboxylic
groups of uronic acid and methyl ester content in the heat treated samples.

The addicion of certain basic organic acid salts to a water extracted filler
prior Co the hear treacrent (3" tower) was found co-enkanze Filler expansion

as indicated by eq. CV/SV measurements

ROB STUDIES (J. W. Leik)®

The laboratory optinizarion studies of the RCA formlavion were completed.
Selected formlations are now being processed at the BU Pilot Plant in aa
attempt to scale up the studies and praduce pilot quantizies for further
resting

FUNZANENTAM STUDIES (N. 3. Sainer)>

g9L00rTOOd

A. Seleccive Filueati

The smoking data indicates that che specially ereaced carbon filter material
with a metallic complex is unaffected by ageing and still renaves 65% NO

From cigarerre smoke after six vecks storage in PSF Filter cigarettes in
desert and jungle room conditions. Lt has also been found that the replacement
of tha sate anion wih certain other anions improves che initial efficiency

of the Filter for NO renaval. This filter material wibl he reviewed by
management on February 4,, 1952
