GENETIC AND BIOCHEMICAL ANALYSIS OF THE BOVINE
PAPLELOMAVIRES E] OPEN READING FRAME AND ITS ENCODED
POLYEEPTIDE: John T. Schiller, Elliot J. Androphy, and
Douglas R. Lowy; Laboratory of Cellular Oncology,
National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland,

‘the Ei open reading frawe (ORF) of papillonaviruses
te usually interrupted of mutated in carcinomas but
qemains intact in beniga papilloass, The bovine
Fapitlenavirus (BP¥) £1 ORF is known co be required Sn
a aeee for episonal saintenance of BPV DXA, although no El
Shisded provein has been identified in infected cells-
fe have pow obtained genetic evidence that a product of
the #1 ORF inhibits BEV icduced transformation and have,
Jn addtedon, idencifled and genetically Localized two
difference biochenical activities of the polypeptide
encoded by the EI ORF.

Several SPY gutancs in which single linker insertions
interrupted the El ORF vere able to induce foct of
transformed celle wore rapidly then the wild-type BPY or
satance with insertions in othee regions of the viral
genoae. The El sotants forued wore mimerous and 12rge2
sevomtes in soft agar than did the wild-type transformed
fection experiments, 3 vector con—

celis. Tn co-tvansf
structed to express only the El ORF was able to inhibit
the high transforming activity aud accelerated growh in
agar of the BEV El mutants, whereas an identical vector
earn an interrupted El gene did not. These results
Strongly suggest that the El ORF by itself can encade
trans-acting biological function.

“EEE analyze the biochentcal activites of the poly-
peptide encoded by the EL ORF, we have generaced these
Uifferene bacterial fusion proteins: one encoding the
aittee Fl ORF, one the N-teruinal one-third, and one the
creerminal one-half. Using these purified proteins and
Gneisera raised against then, ve found that che proveio
axpressed from the full-length El ORF bound DRA
Sencspeci{ically and also bound an ATP analog. The DNA
Moding function vas retained by the N-terminal peptide
while gucleotide binding wes Localized to the C-terminal
peptide. El autents are currently being analyzed to
assess the biological relevance of these two El
biochenieal activities.

