‘THE EFFECT OF BETA-CAROTENE ON LUNG CANCER
Lai Baitang and Wang Hu

Beijing Tuberculosis and Thoracic Tumor Research Institute,
Beijing, China

Introduction

As @ pro-vitamin A, beta-carotene is present in abundance in greea peppers, carrots, and
pumpkins. A re-examination of evidence from prospective and cast-controi studies allowed Peto et al
(9 hypothesize in 1981 that dietary beta-carotene (B-C) has a preveuive role against cancer.

More recently, studies on beta-carotene in rats and mice have shown that beta-carotene has a
protective action against rumors induced by different carcinogens at various sites including the skin, oral
cavity, salivary gland, colon and bladder. Results from epidemiologic studies have also indicated that
he concentration of beta-carotene in the scrum of patients suffering from lung cancer is much lower than
normal persons. The relative risk of fung cancer among subjects with low beta-carotene intake was
significandly elevated.

‘The purpose of this study wes to investigate the effect of heta-carotene on lung cancer in vive
and in vitro.

Materials and Methods
1. The Effect Of Beta-Carotene On Colony Forming Ability Of Lung Cancer Cells

‘The human large lung cancer cell Tine 801 was obtained from Hospital 301 in Beifing and was
‘maintained in glass culture bottles containing Dubecco’s Minimal Essential Medium (DMEM) and 10%
ewoom calf serum. The 801 cells were plated in polystyrene petri dishes at a density of S00 cells per
dish and then cultured ina CO, incubator. Beta-carotene was dissolved in dimethyisulfoxide (DMSO)
and difuted to 3.125 pg/ml and 6.25 pgiml, The two different concentrations of beta-carotene were then
added into the dish-plated cells. After treating cells for 24, 48, 72 hr, the medium was changed to one
without beta-carotene, After 14 days the dishes were stained with Giemsa stain. Colonies containing
‘mote than 10 cells were counted. The colony forming unit (CFE) was defined by the equation:

of colonies formed. yo94

Ni
Cre No. of cells plated (500

PvELESLE B07
