SAB Summary Review - 10/98

Role of Particle - Vapor Interactions ou the Fate of
YVarlous Constituents of Indoor Air

ASitK. Ray
University of Kentucky
Lexington, KY

Brief Description

‘The investigator proposes to develop a novel sampling and measurement apgroach to distinguish -
between particle-phase and vapor-phase quantities of airborne constituents and apply it 0
understand interactions between particles and gas phase constituents with particular attention to
environmental tobacco smoke (ETS). The physical stats (solid versus droplet) of ETS particles
as a function of humidity and the interaction of ETS gas phase constituents with particles from
other sources are also to be investigated. The proposed sarapling technique involves the use of
charged micro droplets (10-50 jam) to collect particles and uncharged micro droplets to collect
‘gas phase constituents, The micro droplets are suspended in an eleetrodynamic balance, exposed
to the test aerosol, monitoved in real-time for physical properties and gross chemical properties,
and collected for off-line chemicsl analyses. Single charged micro droplets and linear streams of
micro droplets will be used depending on the issue being studied, Diluted sidestream smoke will
be used as 2 surrogate for ETS. Constituents of ETS to be considered are carbon monoxide,
ammonia, hydrogen cyanide, formaldehyde, methyl chloride, acetaldehyde, benzene, toluene,
formic acid, acetic acid, nicotine, pyridine, phenol, solanesol, and limonene.

Strengths and Weaknesses

“fhe use of suspended micra droplets for monitoring phase dynamics and differentiating particle
phase fom vapor phase concentrations of constituents is novel. The wozk is clearly in the
category of basic research and is likely to lead 10 new concepts and an improved understanding
of aerosol dynamics. ‘The investigators expertise and his facilities are further strengths of this
proposal in the areas of aerosol science and instrumentation, ‘The principal weaknesses are the
questionable relevance of the work to ETS and indoor air and the questionable appreciation of
the analytical chemistry required. The micco droplet tec'inology is stated as being most effective
where te rumber density of particles is very high as can be the case using sidestream smoke but
is not the case for ETS. ‘The practicality of the approach for highly diluted aerosols is not
discussed, The availability of analytical chemical methods with suificien: sensitivity to
confidently analyze micro droplets for the constituents specified is not cansidered (and is very
unlikely for most constituents). No mention is made of the possible maximum sample sizes of
micro droplets that might be collected to allow the use of the standard analytical methods
mentioned. ‘The mention that Raman Spectroscopy provides information on chemical bonds
present thus allowing a measure of composition suggests the investigator will be satisfied with
much fess than quantitative measures of the individual constituents fisted in the proposal.

Sseepisiog
