05/03/09 WED 13:87 FAX B04 276 2601 ma ap ase WORULNANGHAYD — UUE

DENIC

Oriven by recommendations by the public health community and consumer
research Philip Mortis developed and marketed in 1989 a cigarette with
only residual amounts of nicotine in the filler. Early attempts in the 60s
using solvent and steam extraction of nicotine were successful in removing
nicotine but not successful In being selective for nicotine and maintaining
acceptable taste characteristics. The development of a highly selective
jarge scale extraction procedure of nicotine from tobacco filler was
achieved by supercritical high pressure extraction with carbon dioxide, a
technology adopted from the decaffeination of coffee (used e.g. by General
Foods, which was acquired by Philip Mortis in 1985). The filler treated in
the commercial plant opened near Hopewell, VA, in 1989, contained less

@ than 0.2% of the original natural nicotine, Acceptabilly testing confirmed
the minute residual levels of nicotine and no significant change in the
genotoxicity (Ames activity) of mainstream condensates of danicotinized
filler as compared to untreated reference filler. In addition to nicotine, oils
and waxes, isoprenoids, carboxylic acid, hydracarbons, tobacco-specific
nitrosamines, cembranoids, and stigmaterol were reported to be detected
either in samples of the supercritical carbon dioxide used to extract the
totacco or from laboratory scale experiments (Bates 2051000895). Several
non-menthol and menthol brands (brand names NEXT and Benson &
Hedges DENIC) with less than 0.1 mg nicotine and 9 mg tar (FTC) were
test marketed in 4 test markets in 4 states starting end of 1989. After a
strong marketing campaign those brands reached a retail share of up to
2.7% during the first 2 months after the launch. Their sales, however,
declined rapidly in those test markets and the denicotinized brands nad to

@ — & withdrawn ‘after a year and a half. The differences in consumers’
perception ware found not to be due to the lack of nicotine alone since
adding back either nicotine or extracting the materials removed and adding
them back did not restora the cigarettes to the acceptability of an
unextracted cigarette. Using the consumer feedback which indicated major
taste deficiencies, another attempt to launch these brands was undertaken
in 1991, mixing denicotinized and untreated tobacco in order to obtain
consumer acceptance. The second trials were also unsuccessful and the
production was stopped. Post-market exposure tests addressing concems
about the potential change of smoking behavior and cigarette consumption
could nat be undertaken. The total investment for these activities amounted
to approx. 300 million USD.

2000-05-01 Denia psesoo
DRarT

* 9608250829"
