SOME CHEMISTRY AND PHYSICS OF TOBACCO AND SMOKE.

gobecce is s very complex mixture of chemicals. Of the order of
Jo0023000 different compounda have been identified in tobacco

2o ne aoe the list is growing continually as new and more senai—
iget: Ahi yeseal methods aze being applied. There are sone notable
Guantitative differences between the major tobacco types — tiven
Grd, burley and oriental - that we aro using. For inetance,
ERISGs Contains a lot of nitrate, organic nitrogenous compounds,
Very Little sugar, and hae a higher pH than the othere. Flue-cured
Bery ine a aot of sugar and leaf waxes, and oriental is rich 40.
coor ein acids such ae isovaleric. These chemical differences have
ScStound consequences on the chemical composition of smoke, Fhe
profound operties of the cigarette and smoke flavor. E-g., burley
eed uch faster burn rate than flue-cured which in turn burns

nee ee than oriental. The different tobacco types have also. sige
soeveantly different filling values with burley being the highost
pi giental the lowest. When we blend these tobaccos and put them
Meough the various processing steps, the finished cigarette
through Nas the approximate composition as shown in Figure 1
(depending, of course, somewhat on how the different tobaccos

were proportioned).

once the cigarette ia lit and puffed, it forms a firecone, and
one ous physicai-chenical processes begin to take place ae shows
ee Tue ee Shere are combustion, pyrolysis, pyrogenesis, dis”
iS TEBYER and condensation. To define the terminology: the snoke
thre issues from the butt ond of the cigarette during the puff
gpeNainetream (MS) smoke, and amoke that is emitted from the
it eethe mostly during the puff interval and to a leaser extent
Sueing the puff directly into the atmosphere is Sideatrean, (58)
orye’ (iguce 3). There i@ also a Diffusion Strean (DS) which
sts of gases and diffuses through cigarette paper, The fire”
cone tteelé la quite impervious to air, snd thus, when a cigarette
so"Butted, most of the ait (and 02) comes into the cigarette
Ui bugn the periphery. The consequence of this is that the fire~
Xone 22 elongated, and that the smoke that goss into the Mg
Geiginates largely from tobacco that is in the periphery of
Chevcigarecte. (Figure 4). Conversely, during the puff interval,
So diffuses to the cone surface, the apex of the firecone burna
ft Staster rate and the cone shortens. Thus, most of the $$
Shoke originates from the concentric core of the cigarette.
Typically, the ratio of the amount of tobacco burned during the
perf interval to that burned during the puff is about 5:2.

the temperature profile of tha firecone during the puff is show
qRoriguee S$, ive-, the hotspots are where the air is drawn in at
the pariphery. During the puff interval, the hottest temperntures
the Pesine the firecone. (Figure 6). The cigarette firecone is a
Arty Ceticionely thermostated system - it Loges heat mostly by
W2u%acien wnich is a function of t™4, Thus, it is very difficult
ceechunge the temporature of the cone, no matter how one changes
the cigarette (tobacco blend, paper, etc.)-

ESOTTYLS
