PI NS

Alveolar Adenomas - These are circumscrtbed, often mitiple,

discrete, usually subpleural in location, and are transplantable.
They are usually composed of closely packed cuboldal and/or
solumar colls. Their architecture may 68 papillery and/or

acinar. The stroma is sparse, and blood vessels are infrequent.
Synonyms Include: bronchiolar-alveotar tumor, type A’ tumor,

type B tumor, pulmonary tumor.

Alveolar adenocarcinoms - Although somewhat controversial,
this tumor type was distinguished from the one above by the
occurrence of mitotic figures, nuclear hyperchromatism, anaplasia,
and Invaston of surrounding lung parenchyma, frank Invasion of
the pleura was also noted, as was marked displacement by com
Pression of surrounding lung parenchyma. Qccaslonal animals
evidenced Invasion of bronchi or bronchioles by ether of these
two morphologic tumor types. In addition, metastases Co the
mediastinal pleura was considered IndIcative of malignancy.
Alchough usueily of papi ary architecture, necrosis and
kerattnizatlon was sometimes present.

Squamous cel] (epidermoid) carcinoma = These neoplasms con-
sisted of single or mltiple tumors, often Invading the plévra
and coalescing. Keratin "pearls" were usually present which
exhibited numerous "ghost" cells. Mitotic Figures were often
noted as was nuciear hyperchromatism., The stroma often evidenced
edema and vascular congestion. “Less wet! differentiated squamous
cell carcinomas were also seen. Some of these showed marked
cellular pleomorphism and individual cell keratinization. These
tumors were most Frequently sean around the hilus.

Metastases ware noted to the heart,- kidney, and to the thoracic
lymeb nodes. Pleural implantation with adhesions was the most
frequent form of metastasis. Tumor emboli were observed inthe
Pulmonery veins and In the left atrium.

Adenosquamous carcinomas ~ These tumors appeared in the same
anatomic locations as the two preceding 'types. Formation of
both.acini and keratin pearls was noted.. P.A.S. positive material
Was demonstrated 1n these acini, This tumor type was usually

CTR CONTRACTS 011496

11231240
