doje

CIAR
SAB SUMMARY REVIEW

Title; Measuring and Modeling Pollutant Dispersion in Indoor Air Environments
Author: Keil
Objective: Use tracer studies with varying generation rates and concentrations to calculate inter
zonal airflow rates, turbuient diffusion parameters, determine how room charzcteristics (ach,
volume, geomerry,..) aZfect the variability of inter-zonal transport and twcbulent diffusion, and
use Markov Chains to understand mass transport indoors.
LEvaluation of research problem and experimental design:

1. ‘Main methods discussed in the proposal are:

2.Zons Model - this model ignores the effect of diffusion. Diffusion is effectively modeled by an
increased interzone airdlow.

‘Tushuleot Diffission Model - this model ignores convection, which means the effect of convection
is to increase the diffusion coefEcient.

‘Markov Model - a probability based approach which may be very useful for predicting very low
concentrations of species in the terms of probabilities.

Experiment is relatively straightforward, ifcomplex, and hard to achieve good accuracy. However,
there is no theoretical difficulty in the experimental method,

‘The research is nat original Several other researchers in the U.S., Europe and Japan have
conducted measurements in labs and seal buildings, and have developed and evaluated models
for predicting coutarninant movement in rooms. The primary value of this research is the
potential to add a significant number (80 cases) of real room measurements to the technical
literature.

The investigators intend to conduct a series of experiments to determine airflow rates and associated
turbulent diffusion coefficients within a room and compare results to a model based on the use of
Markov Chains. The authors state that the use of Markov Chain techniques is a “unique new
approach’ to madeling exposure. Unfortunately, the researchers have not looked too deeply into
some of the work that has been done for years at several national laboratories and reported in the
Nitecature, e.g., sce the article by Nasstrom, UCRL-(D-120965, LLNL, 1995, or Boughton,
Delaurentis, and Dunn, Bowndary-Layer Mereor., 40, 1987, or the article by Neslund, Radean, and
Nasstrom, Boundary-Layer Meteor, 67, 1994. Also, running CFD models is becoming easier for

SEZEL6EL07
