SRE

ans ursa6n Jutn Auguat, L780

SUMMARY OF A SERIES OF SHOKE COMPONENT RETENTION STUDIES
Byt_GoAe Re

A neries of human enoke retention studisa has teen conducted to determine
mpecific conponent retention, gross particulate (tar) retention and the
tetention of a range of added alkane aarkers aa indices of particulate
retention under @ variety of puffing and inhalation conditions.

The study of epecific component retention includes two gaa phese materials
(earbon monoxide nd nitric oxide) and an essentially particulste pha
oaponent (nicotine), Gross smoke particulate retention haa been basad on
ravinetric analysis wherees the added alkane markere, considered to be in
joctation with the aeoka particulste phase, wera deterained analytically.

411 the Findings’ relate ta lung (respiratory tract) setention and have
been daternined using inhaled/exhaled difference techniques, The inhaled
dose presented to the aubjecta was determined by human puff recordin
waually in combination with hunan anoke pattern duplication. The subjects
axheletes were collected using either a aulteble bag eyatee or # navel
hood nollection device. In the case of gee phase comonent retention,
the ostiaates were daternined on a puff-by-puff basta Miiist oll other
retention estinates were calculated on a per cigarstte basta.

Gee phase component retention: nitric oxide and carbon monoxide

The retention chsracteristics for nitric oxide end carbon eonoxide were
exomined using three eigarette types with @ range af nitric oxide doli-
vorien (nominally 200, 400 and $00 ppa; stendard machine conditions)
under threo inhelstion pattern (105 IRV, shallow; 25% IRV, moderate;
‘75% IRV, deep). It can ds concluded from thesa studies thot nitric
oxide 4 retained alacet quantitetively (appraximately 90% or greater)
under all inhalation conditiona whilat carbon monoxide ie retained, on
average, to approxiastely 60%, , In addition, it wae observed thet nitrogen
dioxide, an oxidation product of nitric oxide, wes not present in the
exhalate. These findings can be interproted an the beais that both nitric
oxide end carbon monoxide rapidly diffuse within the respiratory space
and henca, provided inhalation accure, the distribution volumn of the
gaa 16 independent of inhalation voluwe. The differential
Parton monoxide end nitric oxide ia a function of the
affinities and/or fate of these comonenta within the respiratory aysten.
The observation that nitrogen dioxide in not presant within the exhalate
4a consistent with the lung concentration of nitric oxide and the rete
of conversion to nitrogen dioxide based on know kinetic constanta for
thie reaction.

atudies, investigations to determine both the fate
and wechenisa of nitric oxide tomoval from the respiratory eystes have
been conducted at Addenbroks's Hospitel. Based on the ratention charsc-
teristics of « range af nlitic oxide end carbon sonoxide gan mixtures,
An essociation with the retention of these componente in subjects with
different availabilities of haemoglobin (exatclaed and enseaic subjects)
they heve concluded: nitric oxide and cerbon monoxide compete for eesen-
Elelty the ema eite, notably heomoglobin, end thet they ara almost
certainly removed from the lung ax nitroayl- ent carboxy-bsenoglobin
foupectively.

SUGCKEASTOS
