Sis"of the glycostae wil! be studied. 4, 6,0-Ethylidene-O-gtu-
Sole nad sedea to the eR tiie fenetsa).

The syothesis of mentnyl chloraforaate wis carried out
vsing quinoline in order to trap the hydrogen chloride formed
dortag reaction, ‘The fintsted product contained oot <}-2s

2500

SYNTHESIS OF TOBACCO ADDITIVES
dluuy 1-30, 1976

E. B, Sanoers,

Aucust 2, 1976

The last two potyners required for the alconal-relesse
patent, PH G62, have seen synenesized; namely, poly(hexy!, {o~
propenyt carbonate) aad poly(senzyl fsopropenys carbanatel.!

Procedures for incorgoration of poly(tsaprapeny) nenthy!
cmlorofarcate) iatg cast-sneet hwve been zerfected. Sheets With good
Sppeorance and flextbiitey, contataing as much as 25% polycer.
hove been age, These sheets will permit fabrication of palymer-
Nntainteg ciperetter sing  minioun of cast-sheet in the blend. fiesfan
of a visie model for § menthol=retease cigarette 1$ now in pra~
gress by Project 2100."

Puftoby-puft analysts of mentnol devivery from polymer-con=
tatotng cigarettes was nat significantly alfferent from mencaol
delivery fro an Alpine.

GC pyralysts and product analysts of gutacyl 2.3.4.6. tetra—
O-acetyl-acDeglvcnpyranoside has coaftened that the giycostde dees
Pelesse guiacel;. The aptiaat yield of the phenol tx 23% au S00".
The relatively jow yield of gulacol on pyrolysis 15 somewhat sur.
prising since vireuatly ao other groducts were observed and no
Pestaue from the glycoside remained.”

Hi, @LKSLOLD CHEMISTRY

The aynthests of the S'-methy]-n*2-brtdgad ateotine bas
heen Initiated: Reaction of pyreale.Z-carboxaldenyde with sent
Earoartde nydrachloride gave a quantitative yield of the seat
Earbatone. "Base treatment of the sentcarbazone bed to Z-nethyl~
pyreaie la 458 yfeld, Alkylation of the methyl pyrrole with ethyl~
GXetoacetace gave echyl (Semethyl-2-gyrroleacetate as the major
product wnich was hyerogeneted to the corresponding pyrroline aver
Phadiva on sTuntaa.

The syathes!s of Z-netnylasabasine was sceonp}ished. The
rearrangenent. of |-eyanometnyl-1-(2-picols1)pyrralidteium tosylate
SECPEES out ang the resulting dates altrite war alkylated lth

aay bt

tstszstoor

