CHARGE NUMBER: 6904

PROGRAM TITLE: BIOCHEMICAL METHODS DEVELOPMENT AND
UTILIZATION

PERIOD COVERED: Novenber 1-20, 1982

PROJECT LEADER: R. MeCuen

DATE OF REPORT: December 3, 1982

1, ¥P9 CHINESE HANSTER CELE INMLBITION OF METABOLIC GOOPERATION ASSAY?

Efforts were continued to confirm and expand the quantitative aspects
of this assay, Of the three chenicals being investigated (TPA, 4-2-phorbo!
and saccharin}, 4-a-phorbo) was retested at doses grester than 10 vg/nl. As
expected, several of these doses were cytotoxic, and thus, dnvalifdated any
of the observed increases tn the recovery of 6-thioguanine resistance cells.
4-B-phorbol in the absence of cytotoxicity appears to be negative in this
bioassay (as reported in the literature).

Impaction trapped 2RE CSC was tested at doses ranging fron 2-20 wg/nl,
There was a slight increase (over background) in the recovery of 6-thioguanine
resistant cetls between 2 and 5 ug/m) after which toxicity excluded any
meaningfull intecpretation of the data. Hore experinents must be done to
determine if CSC ts active in this systen.

TT, MISCELLANEOUS STUDTES

Experiments were started in the L5178(/TK*/~ assay to ascertain the
feasibility of swftching to:a new microsomal preparation.? The old micro-
sone supply (the source of exogenous metabolic activation in all the
mgnmalian cell test systens emptoyed at PH) has almost been depleted. Because
the ¥79 6-thfagvanine resistance assay requires microsomal activation and since
it has onty recently been established fn our labs, it was decided to examine the
new preparation in the "more established" L5178¥ ysten. Bata obtained from the
LSITBY assay should be applicable to the ¥79 6-thiogvanine resistance systen,
In addition, 7F the L5178Y assay 1s requested in the future for testing purposes,
the usefutness of a new microsoma? preparation will already have been determined.

In cotlaberation with a member of Charge Number 1101, microorganisms were
isolated from the pupal cel) cases of the cigarette bectle.? Attempts are under
way to deteruine 1f any of these isolates are toxic to the cigarette beetle
larvae. This cculd be important tn the control of this tobacco pest.

Further studies were conducted to determine the best. method to produce
large amounts of killed ATCC 31973 microorganisms? It was Found, that heating
1 x 10° cells/ni for one tour at 68°C in 0.3% formatin was sufficient to
inactivate the cells. These same inactivated cells (as an antigen) did react
with homologous antiserum but did not react with heterologous. antiserum tna

standard agglutination assay. These killed cells (Sactgrin) wf] sgt to
produce Tange quantities of specific antisera, GOUL4UZ3SS"
