CTR GRANT NO. 2612 PROGRESS REPORT NO. 1
Period Covered: from 1/1/90-5/1/91

Name of Investigator; Robart D. Kuchta
Title of Original Grant: DNA Primase as a Target for Chemotherapeutics

Our broad goa! in these studies is to understand how nucleotides interact with and
inhibit ONA primase. The tale of primase is fo synthesize RNA primers that pol c.can then
elongate. Hence, we ara considering the mechanism and inhibition of primase within the
Context of the pol a:primase complex. Initially, we proposed to develop a kinetic model of
primase's unusual processivity and the role of base:pair stability. Experimenis to understand
the switch from primase to pol o. activity and how the primar is translocated between the two
active sites were proposed. These experiments would provide the basis for understanding
how araA and araC inhibit primase. Finally, we proposed to examine how varying the
structure of the ribose moiety in a NTP affects inhibition,

{nitially, we examined the unusual pracassivity of primase. On a poly{dT) template,
primase products ate mostly 2-10 nuclaotides long, ‘The short products (2-6 nuciaotides}
appear to be at least partially due to primer-template instability. Reducing the assay
temperature fram 379C to 25°C dacreased the relative amount of the short products ca. 15%.
When primars were synthesized using poly(dC) as template, virtually no short products wera
synthesized. Since G:C base-pairs are more stable than T-A base-pairs, this is consistent
with primer:template instability being a major cause of the short products.

Processivity is defined by a competition between addition of the next NTP onto the
growing primer and cissociation of the primer from the enzyme, With greater than 75 uM
ATP, primer dissociation competas with a catalytic process that does not involve ATP
binding. At lower ATP concentrations, primer dissociation also competes with ATP binding.

Of the various length primers synthesized by primase on poiy(dT), pol « could only
utilize these al least 7 nucleotides long. This was true regardless of temperature (26 ar 370C)
or dATP concentration {2-50 uM). Work by several groups found that in vive primers are also
8-10 nucleotides long. These results have important implications for studying inhibition in
vitro. Since pol ot will only utilize primers at least 7 nucleotides long and the role of primase is
to synthesize primers that pol a can further elongate, only products at least 7 nucleotides
long should be considered when measuring primase inhibition,

AtaATP inhibition of Primass.

We examined araATP inhibition of primase using a poly(dT) template. AraATP-
inhibited primase competitively with respect to ATP, and Ki=2.3 uM. Inclusion of araATP in
primase assays had 3 ettecis on the primers: |) The relative amount af short primers
increased; ii} New products 11-13 nucleotides long appeared, and; ii) Primers of altered
mobility appeared, Tha new products 11-13 nucleotides long were due to pal a polymerizing
multiple ar@AMPs onto the primers. Inhibiting pol a using aphidicalin prevented the
synthesis of these products. Importantly, inhibiting pol o did not prevent the synthesis of
primers 2-10 nucleotides long of altered mobility. Thus, primase incorporated araATP into
primers. Whila we do not yet know the precise location of the araAMP in the primers, itis not
incorporated at the S'-terminus. Only the 5'-terminal nucleotide retains ihe y-phosphate of
the NTP. We synthesized [y-8@PjaraATP and tound that less than 0.5% of the araAMP
containing primers contained (22P]. Experiments ara in progress to delarmine if araAMP is
incorporated solely at the primer 3'-terminus.

50717372
