Oetection and Quantkation of Methylated Deoxyribonuclsosides

Using Tandem Mass Spectiomety
Jot M, Wood and F. . Cooke 1, Gham and ©. J Chang
‘Dapedeont of Chemisty Deparment of Maccnal Gomi and Phamecogtcsy
Poca Unies Purcue Universiy
est Lofaatoincians USA ‘eet Later Ingara USA

pooueion
‘Aljlating agers eo of conshieable iran becanae of or cotelnageric nehre ad arlhumor actos. 6 wall onablshad rot OWA
fae pinoy target for aly ager, Many of he mood aclboaes produced en lad i baxo mise-paiing ruling In tttons
rues gone Soce Figure 1. ducks of ENA alilalon cemand anaboal(ehriques capable of bom quaiatve eocuacy ood
santas plecion avo cofcensaone in Owe prerence ol muah lngor amoure a deel talled campeunds. The compounds ol
Foret ove iol, thermal wnlola, and occur in parkeulaty complex maiae,

Pract Goals

COsvalop an cfttnn LCIMSINS mathod to detect plcomel lve ol matyinetooeldos

sebdes oan Induce muaations in cell cures. a loa
Lethe methodology developed qual matyinalecelder wih « naoretlectope aa iseec)

bsnl ord 7
omansat thal a molecule coralaon el he mutagen and conty of hang neene Sail
‘ure wth in ovmaen and matsolpemfones ef ONA ebyion eure can be seer mes
‘abled by wenle actope rocleay HLS

EMEA, pen deanna

Hae

Seperation coral eylnted nuslosnulzs high practure aud hyomalogepty. af opls

‘Safeco sopartone ofthe verous maiyated compeunde in ouscneble es have

Hee ad gue 2. “Ench ef the matyinicteondee rhcied, au wl wt thle Sat tmnt with mat a
‘Seutaied analogs ae synthesized for Use as relacence compounds and taba lope

ittmal candace, reepocovey. An experimental schome Sevaoped forthe 1 iro
tates of medied nuciosies Ie shown In Tele Diag alps diese

“Tender Meas Specomneny

‘At expecinerta Wass parted on a Fiecigan TSCASED tiploatsge
Guaduipsle mans spectrometer. Sica quanttaven ot the enor
Tigtemsucloosides soqulos oxvertly high venstiviy and

% see ate at hasheentndenea owe trast
TF" Fic Buon posal mast OF

te Se ate a ctr sen ow ere

ae res ene tramp Tne mes oF PSL

erven trom a slght moatieaton of Cl in which to eample Ie
ricoaced diet le edzing plasma ol Ue Clreagort gas and

etn men sm 1 acon neaning, bane) OY, DOA nTelos it wo of a, wh
ome Ae moe eS SSM als et gue esl i much ova Staci te
SeenON, ‘then ether desoeplion proceesoe such aa FAB,

oo Tandem rave spactomy (SMS) provide 0 added craton
oe Pinion Sasa te tegentein parm of rane
crea meiner eect fn WEA experer can Beet
= Terres by steel mening i wa ny te das
| cme lee ota wt monte, hn the sn opeciuc Mie wasn metotg END
where Sr Sertinens songs to monte speak dur oe of eledad pat Fae
SEL ene ee vise teoieron eenaance eb ounces Tae

swim Zisb be opines apna sone

rate 2501418365
nel BELLS

Impl In he design of ths methodology and (ner tandem mast spectomenie mthode is te
Tmagstement for So sytheda al dautaunrideled nuciodbes. Nine mattyated nuclcaies
Titan te recy cee to conseporcingGnge of dleron aa Ieied In Table 3. AX sompeuns
‘lor eyiaazed soto hideiteromy nudleoeldb, oo well es the uniboled metyl compounds

fn order to otermlee tho rot of lng the deutcaed tara) efrence mathod fr guoctsllen,

‘Tpeumoras wang e known isle tundedeccmtips iounbeled nuloaidon were pera. The
“irewed axeelee! Wnenty over Ho tango of ralaive concentrations used Ia the ister
HMeerntod by ne rexponee cure fr FAG In Figure 4.

