7 te DR AR FT October 2, 1960

Ae
hs
ANALYSIS OF THE BARCLAY CIGARETTE

‘The experiments carried out in the analysis presented here were largely on Sarclay
King Stze cigarettes because ft and the [00am are very similar in physical makeup.
While these cigarettes are sintlar in tar, dilution level and blend to current Tow
delivery cigarettes on the market, the method of cigarette ventilation ts somewhat
different. Conventional cigarettes have highly efficfent filters wrapped tn porous
paper and connected to a tobacco rod by a porous or highly perforated tipping paper.
The cowbined tipping and porous Filter wrap allow a stgnificant portion of a puff to
bypass the burning coal and enter the filter in the ventilation zone, ‘The Barclay
cigarette has a somewhat Tess efficient ffiter {celtutose acetate} than is aormally
found on low delivery cigarettes enclosed in a nonporous payer, The filter has been
processed with Tong channels on the surface that extend from the smoker end of the
filter for two-thirds of the filter length. The channels-re made {n the filter after
‘the nonporous wrap has been applied. The filter is then attached to the tobacco rod
with tipping paper that has several rows (2-3) of mechanically wade holes located one-
hatf way up the filter over the channels. Measurements show that roughly forty percent
of the holes are over channels. In this system the ventilation air during a puff comes
through the holes and directly down the channels to the saoker. The ventilation air
does not mfx with the smoke {n going through the filter as in the more conventional”
fashion. The PM Multifilter and the old Marlboro Lights filters are the closest tn
construction to the Barclay, The difference is that tn the above products the channels
are open both to the smoker and to the tabacco column: or a second filter. The incoming
ventilation air therefore has two paths; one toward the smoker, and the other indirect:

path’ through either one or both filters.to the smoker.

C80-19673

982212202
