ur ongoing studies supported by «his grant from Phillip Morris administered through the UH
Alabeimer Center have suggested the localization of nicotinic cholinergic receptors associated
‘with the larger vessel fractions fromm che human brain. These vessels contain smooth muscle
which appears to degenerate in AD and may explain the reduced nicotinic cholinergic receptors
in CMV in Alzheimer's disease assessed by radioligand binding sudics (Kalaria et al, ia
preparation), We would like characterize the specificity of this vascular loss further and
demonstrate by double-immunocytochemical techniques that this degeneration ray be in part due
to the deposition of amyloid & protein frequently evident as cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA)
in aD,

For the next grant period we also propose to characterize mechanisms CAA in AD and assess
whether nicotine-users exhibit less CAA and amyloidogenic fragments associated with the vessel
fractions.

AIMS OF THE PROJECT

i si dey les
rr t a

proteins: anal Gow pare

{This will also be tested in nicotine-users and non users). ‘ " a tes eat

1. Quantiffeation of amyloid (AB) protein and amyloid precursor proteins (APP), and their
mRNAs in cerebral vessels.

Hypothesis: These experiments will test che hypotheses that a} cerebral microvessels (CMV) of
'AD subjects produce increased amounts of unique C-terminal amyloidogenic APP fragments and
‘AB-prosein, b) ratios ot APP mRNAs are changed in CMV in AD and ¢) there are specific
localization sites of amyloid proteins in subcellular fractions (smooth muscle) of CMV.

a. To evaluate the deposition of Af protein and APP isoforms ia isolated cerebral vessels in AD,
‘young and aging conirols. The presence of Af-provein snd amyloidogenic APP fragments in
Jeolated large and small cerebral vessels will be quantified by i) immunobloning and i) an
immonoascay. Further, midies will assess the binding characteristics of iodinated AB peptide
in isolated cerebral microvessel fractions

>. To examine and evatuate APP mRNAs in cerebral vessels from AD and aging controt
subjects. The mRNAs of APP isoforms will be quantified by the polymerase chain reaction
(CR), Total RNA from large and smal vessel fractions will be isolated and reverse transcribed
for PCR. Subsequent isolations and PCR amplifications will be used to constuet 2 cDNA
library of homan cerebral endothelium.

2. To assess oxidative products formed in cerebral vessel fractions from AD and control
subjects.

GES6SZ6202
