NATIONAL RESEARCH FOUNDATION, ING.

Rartford, Gonn,, U.S.A.

THE ZUCCALA CONCEPT IN CANCER THERAPY

INTRODUCTION - By way of introduction emphasis should be placed upon the
Sasenbially negative progress which has been made in the treatment
of cencer over the past half century. We are still using the same
old orthodox methods of surgery, and irradiation in one form or
gnother - X-rays, radium and today radlo-isotopss, We have de-
veloped better surgical techniques, We have built bigger and
better inatruments; two million volt deep therapy machines, beta~
trona and cyclotrons, but we atill remain tremmeled by tradition.

We run multi-million dollar scare programs to got people
to have annual cr semi-annual eheck-upa, so that with earlier
disgnosia we may inorease the salvage rate vy correspondingly
earlier surgical or Radiologie therapy. Undoubtedly some lives
have been prolonged by these moans~even extending them beyond
the arbitrary five year basis for “cure, but this same program
has Ilkewlse produced an almost mass fear hysteria ln the pepula-
tion at large. Recently evidence has been presented te show the
importance of the centrei nervous system as a elgnificant co-
faetor in neoplasia. Perhaps the steadily rising rate of cancer
may well have been aided by the ood intentions of these educa~
tional programs, all apart from the rapid increase in our popu-
ation, sapeciaily in that of our older citizens who have reached
tho age in which cancer tends to predominate.

Tt 4p a curfous and almost tragic travesty on our
usually objective point-of-view in seientific matters how we bury
our heads in the sand, like the ostrich, when 1t comes to ex-
hibiting an open mind’so far as cancer therapy is concerned.
Never, in medicine have so many prejudices existed among
sclentiats and medical men, "There are none so blind as they
woo will not see" and to no group more than those in cancer re-
search does thie apply wore aptly.

while Lt be true that in many e¢ientific endeavors
mass application has yleldad solutions to technical problems,
the same has rarely if ever been true in the case of human,
biologie problems. More often than not it has been @ relatively
ebscure worker in the fJeld, who, because of his fundamental
pasic mowledge and hie particular training, has been able to
gee the potential of some phenomenon which may have been observed

‘times before but the significanos of which has been entirely
overlooked by previous investigators. Such an observation wes
that of Alexander Fleming who first recognized the significance

__of the metabolite. produced by Fpenioliliumnotatum™. But! 1t

Subsequently took mass Investigation by hundreds of micro-
Diologists and chemista to develop penicillin technicelly to its
present place in antibacterial warfare.

THE "LYTIC" REACTION - It in this picture of the dedicated relatively
impesuntous; Lone worker in biology and serology which brings
to George S. Zuccala, and the development of his concept of cah-

