CHARGE NUMBER: 6902

PROGRAM TITLE: Biochemical Special Investigations A Qed
x

PERIOD COVERED: duly 1-31, 1923 A
PROJECT LEADER: Terry te

+
Ge nee
WRITTEN BY: Hector D. Garcia se oe we

DATE OF REPORT: "August 5,° 1983 In set ina

T.  ¥79_ SISTER CHROMATID EXCHANGE ASSAY

+ Data from two replicate experinents! treating ¥79 cells with the activa-
tion-requiring positive contro} compound cyclophosphamide were statistically
analyzed by John Tindall.? Both replicates showed a strong dosk related
‘increase ‘in SCEs but highly significant differences were seen between /the renii~
cate sets of data, especially at the lower doses. The differences between
replicates were greater than those seen” previously? between ethyjmethanssu)~
fonate replicates. The replicates with both compounds agre€d well at the
highest doses tested.

A combined experiment treating ¥79 cells with cycloghophpbohamide (+55)
(a third replicate of the exoeriments reported above) of with ary impaction
trapped mainstream CSC from 2Ri cigarettes (-S9) has gen completed" end is
being scored. Preliminary results indicate that CSC tredtment induces endore-
duplication of the chromosomes, suggesting toxicity
apparatus.

An experiment to evaluate differences between results obteined by different

scorers using the sane slides and scoring the same ceJls is in vrogress.5 Tis

; Will permit the design of protocots for scoring which should eliminate this
‘potential variable and allow more confident comparisofis between experiments.

J, TRADESCANTIA STAMEN HAIR MUTATION ASSAYS

The experiment testing the ability of ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS} to.
induce pink mutational events in stanen hair cells has been completed, Plant
cuttings were exoosed to EMS for 4 hr at 0, 107, 10-2 and 5 X 10-2 H. Scoring
began 10 days after treatment. The peak scoring period occurred between 12 and
27 days after treatment. Pink mutational events were 12.37 +/- 6.16, 13.38 +/-
4.14, 21.08 4/— 5.35 and 57.04 +/- 19.81 per 1,000 hates for 0, 10-8, 10- and
5X io-?'N of EWS, respectively. These results show that there is a dose-related
Increase in the mutational events with increasing concentrations of EMS. These
results agree with those obtained by an outside laboratory. It should be
pointed out that the control sample showed a similar increase in pink mutations
as the treated samples in our experiment, which has not been observed by the
outside laboratory. The source for this’ increase is not know. It might be
attributed to some type of cross contamination due to the fact that ali cuttings
were incubated in a single container and were bathed in a common solution.
Modifications will be made for the next experiment in that each treatment group
WITT be tncubated in a separate container.

fo the cells’ mitotic 6

Entevstose

