PROJECT NUMBER:
PROJECT THLE

6502
Process Monitoring and Real ‘Time Measurements

PROJECT LEADER + K. B. Koller
PERIOD COVERED : June, 1991

PROCESS METHOD DEVELOPMENT

‘A Objective: Develop a QA procedure for acceptance of adhesive shipments for
Cabamss,

B. Resulls: Calibration gas-phase and liquid-phase spectra for 12 adhesive types have
‘been collecied, Principal component analysis was successfully used to determine the
type of an unknown sample adhesive as well as give a statistical evaluation of the
corrlation between the spectrum of the sample to the spectra contzined in the
caligration set. The level of cometation between the sample adhesive spectrum and
spectra of known quality adhesives will be used ta identify problera samples.

C. Plans: Minimally acoeptable adhesives well be evaluated 10 determine the allowable
level of spectral variation between sample and calibration data. Sofware will be
developed to facilitate routine sample analysis,

D. References:
1. Lewis, W., Jr, PM Notebook #9095, pp. 7-9, 17-18,
2. Partish, M., PM Notebook #9106, pp. 3-5.

SMOKE ANALYSIS.

‘A. Objective: Characterize the mainstream gas-phase components of cigarettes from dhe
SelecGve Fikration Study.

B. Results: Thrve cigaretis with the most varied subjective response (Marlboro filler,
Lous paper, and either conventional CA, CA/Charcoal, or CA/basic-trealed-charooal
filters) and a reference cigarene (Marlboro filer, conventional wrapper, conventional
CA files) showed only minor differences in gas-phase components between the
Conventional wrapper and the lotus wrapper. Models with the conventional wrapper
‘were slightly higher in per puff deliveries of acatylene and HCN, while slightly Yower
in deliveries of acctaldehyde, ethylene, NO, methane, ethane, propylene, CO and CO,
Methanol and isoprene deliveries were the same regardless of the wrappet type. No
significant differences were observed due 10 variations in the filters,

C. Plans: Additional cigareues in the filte-wrapper study will be compared to
determine if differences can be observed in the gas-phase profile duc to paper or high
efficiency CA filter,

66

geetoze7z0z
