Catalytic Antibodies

This new élass of molecules couples antibodies’ vast
diversity with the catalytic power that makes enzymes
invaluable for technology, medicine and basic research

by Richard A. Lerner and Alfonso Tramonlana

‘sn mtibodles be made ta seive
4 enzymes? These two clas
se4 of proieing seem 19 have

evolved far dlfrent tasks, Eneymes

ate dlsiiaguished by thelr calalye
ic auilty, the abiliy to aectlerate
chemical" eegeitane without being

‘sed up themselves, Antibodtee are

nique in inet ality 1a recognises

aiversy afsubstances

Yet boti classes of proteins exert
{nie effects In. much the seme way
by binding to other molecules. Ene
aymnes have clef ge crevice ontete
surlace, in which they biad chemical
reacianis in the course of transform
Ing hem. Aniibodies have 3 speclat
‘zed sie that enables them 10 bind to
molecsies belonging to orelgn or
Sonism hol nave lovaded she body,
thereby marking the intruders for de:
struction by ovher components of the
Fmmune system,

The great diversity of antibodies ts
4 refletion ofthe Immune system's
detensive fancién, in ie ably To
‘ake perhaps 100 milion diferent
antibodies, each one capable af bind.
Ing to parteularTeretgn substance,
the immune system io effect ane
tates the mohirude and variety of
Bossible Invaders. The chembeat re
Betians offen Contest sre stereo
fvped and Invartant, Nawue fs saul
ed with ocshaps & few thousand
maymes, cach one capable of Cate
IWaing one ora few rescuons.

Whhout 3 catalyst most biochem
ical Feacdons graced wilh Impos
sible stowness. Whether they take
place [a livig oxganteme, inthe tbo
Fatory or In Industral processes,
these (ransformetlons depend cru:
cially on the swall array of exising
enzymes. Yet for @ reattlon that is
not biologically essential there ts of
tena enzyme, The inmune system,
liowever.can make an antibody io al
‘ost any substance, and {tH now
Dossible to folate a supply of pure

2

“monocfonat” aniibody thal has 2
single target molecule. 36 there any
‘way to build on the baste shnllariy
between antibedles and enzynies In
orderta give saishodles ihe abillty 10
‘catalyze chennlealrescilons?

Im out labaratorles atthe Resenrch
Insuimte of Scripps Clinle see have
been learning about the structural
details of an antibody’ Imeracilon
wilh Rs taeget moteeute, Recently
this new knarwledge, combined sit
other chemical tntuilions, has sug
ested ways to hatness for catalysts
the energy with which anlibadies
bind to ineiecargets. We have atcendy
Produced the first catalyile antibod
4es, and the research could uhlmat
fy bear Feultina virtually tiie
dely of ealalyite snubodles for use
In biotechnology, medicine and in:
vestigalfons of protein sirwcvare and
function,

Est ttonth aratnary smubodtes
donot catalyze reactions niving
corganlsms, hey do show certain fear
tures suggesiing & potential for ea
talyals. Working whl Elteabeth B.
Getzoffand john A. Tajacr of Seripps
and H, Marlo Geysen of he Common
‘wealth Serum Laboratories in Austra-
lia, we found” hat aplbadies con:
induce structural changes. In thelr
large! moteeules, We frst lied amr
bodies to a protein by Injecting It
Into experimental animals, We went
fon to determine swhleh parte of the
‘original protein the resulting. anth
bodies bound to most seadlly and
how they gatned access those antl-
genlcsegmenis,

As a prototypical target prarcia we
chose myohemerythrig (MlIn) whieh
servesin certain marine wormeas an
oxygen carrier. Like other prevelns,
ssn consists of along cheln of mina
acids, folded Into a specific three:
dimensional form, The sequence of
sun's amino acids Is Enown, and

is threadimenstonal fold was de-
lermined through X-ray crystallogre
phy by Steven Sheriaf ine National
Insuute of Dlabetes snd Digestive
and Kidney Diseases, Wayne.A, er
‘ricktan of Colombla University and
Jonet D. Sih of Purdve University
The sequence Iafermution enabled
us lo syihesize pepildes~short se-
sueaces of amino aelds—mimicking
segments of the protein. The strue-
{ra infarmaiton then told us which
site on the protein each of the pep
Hides eeprestmted,

We lested each peptide farsi abil.
1y 10 Saterset all aniebnin antibod
Ses and wok the resul as a measure
of antibody binding to the corre:
Eponding she on the folded provcin,
‘The resuhing arulgenie map of tie
showed ihat every site onthe prateln
le he carget of a few aniibodfes, but
the most reacilve sites are those at
‘which the protela's structure fs flext
ble and lis amine acids form a con
vex surface, whieh presumably, Bis
the concave binding pocket of one oF
another antibody.

We then exemined the antibodies*
binding preferences in more detail,
‘To find out which amino acids are
cructal to binding ata given Sie, we
synuhestzed peptides mimicking the
antigen ste arevery amina acid but
fone, where a different amino acid
was subedtoted, Agaln we lesied the
pepiides for thelr reactvity with ete
‘uR andbedtes, noting the effect of
each substitutton, If a substitution
reduced the reactivity substantia,
the orletnal amino acid must be fn
volved in anutbody binding,

‘To our surprise, not ail the arming

acids crucletc binding can be found *

fon the surface of the pratein, where
ney are divectly exposed 1a antibod
les. In one sequence of amino aids
representing an antigenle site, for ex:
ample, aibodtes must imeract sith
‘the aming acids valine, tyrosine and

SS2FpEszog
