‘The Effect of Chronical Expoxure of Room Aged Sidestream Smoke on 8
Hydroxydeoxyguanosine Lovela in Rat Respiratory Tract DNA and Urine

INTRODUCTION

‘There is increasing evidence that primery events in chemical carcinogenesis and
mutagenesis are DNA damage and modification. The 8-oxe modification of
‘guaning is found in mammalian ONA where the lovala Increase with oxidative
‘Stress (1), In addition to any effects of exogenous DNA damaging agents, there
are high background levels of &-hycraxyguanine formation in humans and
rodents induced by @ variety of endoganous metabolic procasses (2). Since &
Ol-quanine causes G to T tranaversiona, this damage must be repaired to
maintain genetic integrity. As the adduct is actively repaired and excreted via the
urine, extimates of the extent of oxidative damage occurring per call per day can
be based upon urinary 8-OHdG levels. Two mammalian repair enzymes have
bean identiied with different mode of action. One is a 6-OH-guanine-glycosylase
‘and the other Is @ 6-OH-guanine-erdonucleage that lacks 8-OH-guarine-
Giycosylase activity (3).

The aveilabie data regarding the formation of 8-OHdG suggest that mainstream
‘smoke Induces its formation in vitro and in vivo. in vitra it was found that
mainstream smoke causes formation of 8-OHGG in autured human lung calls
{). In vivo an increase of &-OHdG in human peripheral leukocytes afler smoking
was found (5). When factors influencing the excretion of 8-OHdG in 24 h urine
from 83 rerkdomiy selected heaithy subjects wore investigated, smoking was
found as a significant predictor of 8-OHdG excretion (6).

No deta are available until now about sidesiregm smoke (SS) and envirconmantal
tobacco smoke (ETS) induced 8-OHdG formation. The potential health
consequences of exposure to environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) are complex.
Epitemiolopicet etudves have reported both postive and negative associations.
between lung cancer and exposure to ETS (7). Several in vito studies
Conducted on highly concentrated extracts of ETS have reported positive results,
Inaticating that it a genotoxic under these study conditions (8.9.10.11). In vivo,
{ate ware exposed in 14-day and 90-day inhalation studies to aged and diivied
aidestraam smoke which was used aa a modal for ETS, At the highoat dose of
10 ba TPMUI Lae and coworkers (12,13) found DNA adducts using a 2p
Postlabeling technique. Their resus indicate a no-cbearved-effect-davel (NOEL)
for this parameter of at least 1 ug TPM

In the present study room aged sidestream smoke (RASS) was used as a mode!
for ETS. 8-OHdG formation in DNA trom respiratory tract tissues was
investigated following exposure to two concentrations of RASS for 6 and 12

beezDozOsSZ
