CHARGE NUMBER: 2525
PROJECT TITLE: Chemistry and Isolation of Tobacco Constituents

PROJECT LEADE!

Harvey J. Grubbs

PERIOD COVERED: December 1-31, 1982
ATE OF REPORT: January 12, 1983
dC Study

The first large scale smoking and condensate collection utilizing '*¢(u)-
nicotine spiked cigarettes has been compteted.' The mainstream cold trap
condensate from 122 cigarettes (2.1é6uCi/cigt.) was fractionated? using the
Snook® procedure. The aza-arene fraction contained 0.28% of the activity
found in the condensate, These preliminary data show an appreciable amount
of activity in the aza-arene fraction, Repeated gas chromatographic examination
has established this activity 1s not due to residual nicotine. Nicotyrine has
been tentatively identiffed as a major component in the matnstream aza-arene
fraction. The sidestream smoke condensate was Simultaneously collected by an
electrostatic collection technique,’ and has been subjected to fractionation
using the Snook procedure,” The aza-arene fraction accounted for approximately
0.5% of the activity found im the sidestream condensate,

The second large scate carbon-14 smoking run will be conducted in wid
January, For this and all future carbonel4 runs, all analysis and clean-up
from one run will be totally completed.before beginning the next run so as to
minimize possible cross contamination,

After evaluating several different procedures, a general procedure fer the
preparation of several different ring size aza-arene has been developed.*
Using the sodium salt of m-nitrobenzene sulfanic acid as catalyst, a modified
Skraup synthesis has been used to prepare five specifically labelled aza~arenes.
The following compounds are available:

azararene total activity
2,4-18C-quinol ine 7.49
2,4-}9C-6,8-dimethyl quinoline 19.9
1,3-1¢-benzo[f]quinal ine 5,03
2,4-18C-dibenzo[f,h] quinoline 1.28
1,3+**C-phena leno] ,9-gh]quino] ine 1.58

These compounds will be used in recovery studies in the Snook fractionation of
mainstream and sidestream condensate.

Gas Chromatography/Pyrolysis

A capillary splitter was designed and built for use in the Perkin-Elmer GC
to enable simultaneous detection by the A/P detector and the flame ionization
detector of the effluent froma single column,” Peak shape and retention times
show the splitter system is working efficiently, This system will be used in
further pyrolysis studies of deoxyfructosazines and Amadori compounds.

€le2stzzoz
