1h sry representation of he primary pathuayt repunsible for the prorasing of sensory
Simi oF motor lnpus. i & noble that momvaminentic (soredenergic, seronnergic,
dopaminergic) neurons do not appear 1o be involved. The enatomical divergence of these
Jauer neurons suggests th thes networks ave superimposed om tow: Comey seastey or
imate fipmalc. We hive foond come evidencs that monouminergic nenerng. especially
GepuINETE: Une favor dhe Cuntona ole of one oF another cerebral strenure, depanding
on the behavioural aad extemal situations the animal is experee tn. ‘These results seem
forgone since doanincras acrvas a exe sensitive 1 moet of the phanracelogical
Products which induce addiction,

Arpbemmine wad cocaine inerae the cpamines of opamine in the synaptic left
Moree dpsmiversic newons which ionervax conical and subvunieal structures ports
‘icetoi receptors and sve regulated hy email intemevtons which Beas u-oplold yecepton, We
lave shown the repeated capasurc 10 morphine increases the etviy of dopaminergic
‘Arerons inervanng suhorirdl arene, At the opposite. animals repeatedly exposed eo
nicotine demonszuie an activation of dopaineege ncurons innervating cortical strucure,
‘whereat dopaminetgic acietot innervating nebcortice sactures remain unaffecied,

ive Dat drug. abuse necessarily involves repeated exposute 10 the dug and that yuch
“Xposure 10 the aivotine was found 1m seduey iss stmulitory effect ou subcortical neuroas,
{hese resus gest that nicotine diftes Importuady from other abused drugs such as oplatcs
and paychomotse atimulanin. These later are indasd generally aucepted lo achieve thelr
‘erwanting properties through the cttvatin of subcortical dopaininerrkc neurons.

ine dom indicate Bot. in adv to subcurdcal stuetores such as the nocleus ecxumnbens,
Prefrontal cortex nay be a lved in drug seward, Since dopaminergic neurons
‘mnervning comical structures play a major role in Copnitive pruvexscs, i cai be pwopored,
‘herefore tut the asivation ofthese neuroot by nicotine repratans the physiological basis of
tehaccn smoking’ fcliazory efees on eam and increased atemion, Suc effets nay
be a important basis forthe pursai of nicotine,

OP. Tashe _

Teerses202
