ra1o
Project aRT
Ravi Prasad
April, 1989

To support comexcial plant design and Flavor
Development objectives at the sexmuda fundred Pilot plant.

Raanite: Pilot plant runs continuad tm support of conguner testing.
Exteactions continua to meet the 97 percent nicotine removal target.

Commercial plant filler was qualified by achieving tanget extraction
Level with DL blend filler cut and cased at the Bermuda Hundred
Processing Facility, Tue subjectives were acceptable. Seas cut at
Loulaville and cased at the commercial plact were successfully used
co extract OL bland tobacco within process specifications.

A apecial test was completed to allow storage study of extracted
filler st various temperature, humidity conditions, Three sepazate
stam absorption testa ware completed uving different stem
types/biends, witn acceptable absorption efficiencies and pressure
drop performance.

Paramtara for vater colum design at steady state conditions vere
established at the University of Texas and at General Foods
Technical Research. The progress is satisfactory and on schedule.

Evaluation of Hinds on-line moniter continued. the date 18 being
generated to allow correlation of aicotina concentration in Co, with
the filler extraction performance, Data from the pilot pleat
woattor is being sant to Hinds in ordac to determine the OY
abeorption cosfticients duzing the process cycle, These
coefficients will thon be used ¢o optinize the design tor the
comercial units. The current plao ia tor the commercial plant te
have dedicated analyzers on the extractor and sbscrber.

Ulerascoic inspection of tha pipe welds has been completed and »

majority of veld defects hava been repaired. A fav alaor wold

Sefects will be repaired in May 1909.

Puan:

1. Assist in the stactup of the comercial plant. the pilot plant
will be sbut down trom May T to June 15, 1989, to allow the RGD
personnel to assist in the commercial plant startup.

2. Repair all remsiniag weld dafect:

3. Carry out scheduled asintenance and aafaty inspections.

46

2OSzzzz02z
