VIREN:HIYARAMA LIFE-TABLE
DRAFT-REPORT

The evidence that Hiyarena has misrepresented his cohort
study of passive eackers,and probably fabricated e large part
of his data is compelling. Thie is based on analyses recently
completed.and which still need some refinement. The actual
findings are not going to change,since the analy:
conducted to err on the side of under-estii
been based on conservative ausumptions where they were
necessary.

are covered in a very brief
aannarjend results ghly summerited. leaving out
interesting, but detailed intermediate calculation
Ko. one documents severe mortality deficits in Hiya
study of passive suoking-Thoae deficite are highly
unlikely,and are reflected in all cancers evaluated.The life-
table methodology used in this andlysia,ia the approach
usually taken in analyzing prospective cohort date using an
external control.

Apalyais No. tuo is totally contrived.snd is d
show how results could be fabricated using Japan

Two different analysi

ianed to
vital

atatistion ag s starting point.the analysis sesumes that the
cohert doean*t any older through the follow-up period:

If the resulte of thie sisuletion fit the published data, then
Hiyareoa’s study would be clearly flawed, or @ synthetic data
construction. In fact, the estimated cancer cases calculated
in that analysis fit Hiyerems's findings very well.

These anslyses vere the outcome of initial recommendation
made to the Tobacco Institute ETS Working Group almost « year
ago by eyuelf. They require no sore date than what Hiysrems
hss already published,and focua on the comparison of reported
deatha("observed deaths") with the mortelity expectation that
would ba observed had the cohort mortality been comparable to
thet of all Japs women of th e age(s) during the
sixteen year follow-up.

Background

Cohort age distribution: Consider « cohort of 91,540
nonsmoking Japsnese women carried at the ioception of the
study(1965} and followed for the next yeurs-1961
through 1981.The age ri of cohort meabera was fron 40
through 79,with fifty-eight percent of the cohort aver 50
years of age at the start of study. Twenty-three percent were
sixty or more years of age at the tii

The age distribution of cohort members in 1966 ie shown in
table 1.3 ("hiya cohort") ef four age strata, 40-49,,.70-
79, (taken frog table Z:Hiyars: jal. To facilitate
analyaie,five-year age strate were created, holding the
number of individuals within each ten-year grouping to the

ap
20's 289r tHe 616 aes are Gar easteeo.

OtLgrStz0z
