0480! 2 How neurons regulate the metabolic stability
and organization of their nicotinic acetylcholine receptors .
{nachR) is not known, Nouronal nAChRs exhibit changes in their oe
Surface distribution throughout developnent and aging. For

example, in mammals chronically exposed to nicotine, the somber

bf nAChRs in the CNS increases. However, in neurodeganerative

diseases such as senile denentia of the Alzheiner’s type and
Parkinson's disease, nAChRs are selectively lost. Molecular

biologists have presented us with the possibility that a

staggering mmber of nAChRs may exist in the mammalian brain, and

formal and diseased state. The proposed experiments will use
cultured cells transfected with neuronal nAChRs to examine the
relationship between the structure of the divergent cytoplasmic
domain of nauronal nachRe and receptor subunit aasembly and
susceptibility to selective intracellular protein degradation.

Background: Anatomical, pharmacological, and physiological
Studies collectively implicate a role for nAChRs in memory and
their selective loss fron the regions of the brain that
Gegenerate in Alzheiner’s or Parkingon’s disease 1s now well
documented. Wa have recently shown that (HJnicotine binds to
only neuronal nAChRs composed of a4 and 82 subunite and not those
PF other subunit composition (abstract Attached). Further, we
have just completed a study of the regulation by NGP of nachRe in
P12 cells (Abstract Attached), Our results support a model
where NGF affects nAChR expression through a post-translational e
nechaniem (s). If these results can be extrapolated to the
intact animal, RNA measurements will not be sufficient to
elaborate on the type(s) or the number of expressed receptors.

Although nAChR subunits share substantia) overall sequence
identity, there is little sinilarity between their cytoplasmic
domains. However, a regulatory role for this diversity has been
suggested by the observation that the stabilization of miscle
NACHRs at tha neuromuscular junction corresponds with an
association between the cytoplasmic domain and cytoarchitecture,
Since one of the most rapid ways to regulate receptor function to
rapidly degrade them, and this relatively unexplored process
could play an important role in regulating receptors. In
neuronal nAChRs, this regulatory process is implicated by the
presence of PEST sequences (Roger at al., Science 234:364, 1986)
in the cytoplasmic domain that correlate with rapid,
nonlysosonal, degradation in other proteins that contain then.

STATUS: To measure neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor

(mAChR) subunits, subunit-specific antisera were made to portions

of the cytoplasmic domain which were prepared as trpE fuston

Proteins in bacteria. Although nAChRs are probably degraded to
completion in lysosones, the susceptinitity to initiating

proteolytic events may be related to the presence and exposure of

PEST sequences in the cytoplasm. This idea was tasted by

neasuring the degradation of a282 nAchRs in transfected fat 2 e@
gelle. Receptor degradation proceeded rapidly (Tal0 hrs), .
independently of lysosomal proteolysis, and siniler to other
