10 Jul. 98. HHM XAETSISTRESSISTAESABS.DOC —P onoa/s28a

Stress Induction in Rabbits by Cigarette Sidestream Smoke.

{Draft results from a pilot study’)

4 rabbits wera exposed for 6 hours to the fresh sidestream smoke (FSS) of the atandard
Feterence cigarette 1R4P and of a non-tobacca cigarette (X6D6MW). FSS coneantrationa were
7 end 20 ya total particulate matter par liter corresponding to 20 and @O ppm carbon
monoxide, in addition, nan-chemical stressors such as Immobliization were used, The
Individual rabbits were sequentially exposed to tho different stressors with non-exposure days
Interspersed. Effects were evaluated by comparing data obtalned on exposure days to those
on non-exposure days.

‘The heart rate was consistently decreased by approximately 20 % as a response to boih types
of FSS, By Immobilization, the heart rate Incroased by epproximately 16 %.

Corticosterone levels In urine” rose up to 2-fold following exposure to both types of FSS and
approximately 8-fold by immebllization. Urinary aertisol did not respond.

Noradronaline lovols In urine rose up to S-fold following exposure to both types of FES and
approximately 2-fold by Immobllization. The level of nofmetanephrin, a noradrenaline
matabollte, rose up to about 30-fold following exposure to FSS of TAF, But this effect waa
not reproducible, No effect was seen on adrenalin and motanephrin levels. None of these
compounds responded to immobilization.

‘The other stressors usad did net cause relevant atresa responses.

In conclusion, the few data avellable do show a distinct stress reepones of tho rabbits to FSS
exposure, elthough the responses were small and show a large interlndMdual variation. No
dose/reaponse characteristics could be proven under these conditions. The FSB generated
from tha non-tobscco cigarette also Induced stress responses, slihough to date, the data da
not allow a quantitative comparison to the effecle seen following 7A4F FSS exposura,

"Based on the low umber af rabbits In this study and the fact that this was the first stress study In our
Isboratory, the results have to be considered as preliminary. Staaical evalations hava not Boon made
fodats. .

excretion data are normalized to urinary creatinina

pzeesozose

pe

