Monthly Report
January, 1990

To: D, Ayres
From: S$, Wahab

Lab Mainentance

Concinued the effort to maintain and develop the recombinant BNA lab by
acquiring new methodologies and techniques in house. This involved purchasing
new equipment, chemicals, and special-purpose molecular biology kits.

Research

(1) Classified and kept stock of important selected root overly-expressed
stones obtained from our research by differential hybridization methodologies.
This involved inoculating clones on specific agar media plates, glycerol stocks,
and media stabs.

(2) Initiated studies of overexpressing PHT in E. coli from selected clones.
‘This involved PMT overexpression, preparation of E. coli extracts, assaying PMT
activity and running PAGE-SDS gels of the corresponding E. coli extracts. So
fer, twenty-four specific selected clones have been studied; only a few of

these clones showed PMT activity higher then background levels. These clones,
however, need to be examined further for possible overexpression of PHT in E, coli.

(3) Prepared double-stranded DNA from root selected overly-expressed clones,
using ainipxep procedures, and examining DNA purity on DNA agarose gel in case
it can be used for DNA sequencing with or vithout further purification pro-
cedures.

(4)_ Recovered single-stranded DNA from selected clones of pBluescript phagemids.
‘This involved culturing selected clones in specific media, treating with helper
phage, recovering single-stranded phage and, finally, purifying the phage.

This work was done in collaboration with Yed Malik.

(5) Examined recovered single-stranded DNA from pBluescript phagenida on aga-
rose gel for the possibility of using single-stranded DNA for DNA sequencing
methodologies.

(6) Initiated preparacions of large scale DNA preps from selected clones to
Prepare larger amounts of high purity DNA, in case it is required for DNA
analysis and sequencing methologies.

e6SSesrz0r

Professional Responsibilities and Miscellaneous

(1) Issued a trip report "Biotechnology: Science, Education, and Commerciali-
zation" ~- an international symposium at University of Florida, Gainesville,
FL, December 3-6, 1989.
