CHARGE NUMBER: 1005

PROJECT TITLE: Improved Semtworks Operations
PROJECT LEADER: dF. Sherwood

PERIOD COVERED: March, 1979

DATE OF REPORT: © Apri? 11, 1979

i

Primary Processing

Notched Blade Cutting

Analyses of cigarettes were completed in the program to
evaluate uniforn strand length cutting using AMF-Legg notched
blades with notch widths ranging from 12-45 om. The results of these
tests showed no evidence that cutting filler with the different
notch width blades significantly affected cigarette firmess,
coal strength, of the CV of filler from ripped cigarettes
Sieve analyses after the maker gave 2 slight indication that
the £ longs fraction increased as notch width increased which
was the trend observed on filler before the maker, However.
no significant changes were observed in the sum of the mediums
and longs fractions of filler after the maker as notch width
varied.

Because the results of these tests indicated no benefits
of notched blade cutting, no further work in this area 1s
planned. A report sumartzing this work is being written.

Blend Component Studies

Ammonia Kigration in £7

As a part of a larger study to determine the effect of
residual ammonia on the CY of ET, a test was run which showed
that residual asmonia in ET will migrate into other blend com
ponents ina cigarette. In this experiment, 100% ET cigarettes
Pith an initial residual ammonia level of 0.96% were sealed in
i Jar containing Karlbora filler without ET which had an initial
imnia level of O.41%, The amounts of ET and filler were such
that the concentration of ET in the jar was 8.5%. After two
weeks, the €T cigarettes and the filler were anzlyzed for
Gamonia. The resutts showed that the ammonia level in the £7
decreased to 0.44% while the level in the filler increased to
0.452. A material halance on the ammonia in the Jar, showed
that of 1.993 9 of emonia on the tobacco in the Jar initially
alt but 0.031 9 (1.68 of total) were accounted for in the
anatysis made after two weeks.

TeTosFzzoz
