CHARGE NUMBER: Project 1708

PROJECT TITLE: PhySicat and Chemical Properties of Tobacco
PERIOD COVERED: February 1-28, 1983

PROJECT LEADER: B, C. LaRoy

OATE OF REPORT: March 3, 1983

PARTITIONING OF WATER IN STEM ANO LAMINAL,2 (J. Crump, |, Trentham)

A study of the kinetics of water sarption by "factory stem”,
“factory lamina”, whole leaf, "test stem" and "test lamina” is in
progress, Factary stem and lamina designate material separated by the
Richmond Stenmery. Test stem and lamina destonate material obtained
from the Stenmery as whole leaf, reordered as whole leaf then hand
separated for analysis. Initial results on Burley grade 857 give
adsorptton relaxation tines for each sample as follows:

Factory Sten 4.9 hrs
Factory Lamina 4.0 hes
Whole Leaf 6,7 hrs
Test Stems 9.9 hes
Test Lamina 6.0 hrs

Sorption rates for factory separated stam and lamina are
essentially the sane and are faster than for whole leaf. The slower
rate of sorption for stem compared with lamina when they are part of a
whole leaf could prave useful during Stenmery threshing. If the sane
is true for desorption, it may be possible (as suggested by J. Wnidby)
to overwet leaf and then rapidly dry 1t back to the normal Ov
(approximately 18%) Just prior to threshing, leaving stems more moist
than the lanina, and thus more flexible for threshing. Desorption
studies are in progress,

TRACKING METHODS FOR TOBACCO ACCOUNTABILITYI,3,4 (M. Wood, J. Crump,
‘4. Hartung)

For tobacco accounting purposes, tt fs desirable to track the mass
flow of tobacco independently of water and casings. Two current
methods for tracking tobacco “dry weight" are O¥ and GC water, The
former method is substrate dependent, while the latter is more tine
consuming and has moce measurenent-to-neasurement variability, Tt, has
been suggested that tracking an “inorganic” component (Ca, Mg or K}
might provide a better means of accounting for tobacco loss or gain
than either moisture measurement mettod. Thus, a cooperative program
with QA and the Analytical Division was initiated for quantitative
comparison of these approaches. The program includes comparisons of
OV, GC water and inorganic analyses on dried tobacco to which measured
aflounts of water and casings have deen added. Initial experiments are
in progress.

FOTEOZSzOz
