~

i

ar

CHARGE HUMBER: 2500

PROGRAM TITLE: SYNTHESIS OF TOBACCO ADDITIVES
PERIOD COVERED: Marci 31 - Apert 30, 1975
PROJECT LEADER: E, B. Sanpers

DATE OF REPORT: Hay 1, 1975

1, ALKALOID CHEMISTRY

Synthesis of 3-aminoacrolein has been successfully carried
out. Reaction of the 3-aminoacrolein with cycloheptanone gave a
ow yield of two products one of which was the desired 1-aza-
benzcycloheptane. The reduction of 4'-carbomethoxycotinine with
lithium aluminum hydride gave eis~ and ¢rans-4'~hydroxymethyl-
nicotine. The two isomers were separable by tle.*

. A successful synthesis of 2-methylnicotine was accomplished
vig the base catalyzed [2,3] sigmatropic rearrangement of ]-methy1-
1-(2-picotyi)-2-cyanopyrrolidinium chloride, albeit in low yield.
Several approaches directed to improving the reaction are now in
progress. Attempts to utilize 2-methoxy-l-pyrroline, prepared
from the reaction of 2-pyrrolidinone with dimethy] sulfate, as a
starting material for the preparation of 2-cyanopyrrelidine have
been unsuccessful,*

The following substituted phenylpyrrolidines were prepared:
j-methyl-2-(3- and 4-methylphenyl)-pyrrolidine and T-methy1-2-
(3- and 4-trifluoromethyl phenyl }pyrrolidine. Ali four compounds
were prepared via the reaction of the appropriately substituted
phenytlithium reagent with l-methyl-2-pyrrolidinone followed by
sodium borohydride reduction.*

Synthesis of opticatly active 1-(a-methylbenzyl)~-2-pyrro-
lidinone was carried out by the reaction of (a)-methylbenzylamine
with y-butyrolactone.*

TI,  ELAVOR-RELEASE CHEMISTRY

The synthesis of di-¢-butyl 3,4-diketoadipate, a potential
biacetyl-release agent, was undertaken by the reaction af the
lithium enolate of t-butyl acetate with oxaly! chloride. The
reaction was abandoned due to umpromising results. Studies di-
rected toward the use of glycosides as alcohol-release agents were
initiated. The synthesis of cyclohexy! B-D-glucoside was carried
out vie the silver oxide catalyzed reaction of 2,3,4,6-tetraacetyl-
a-D-glucosy! bromide with cyclohexanol followed by cleavage of the
acety] groups with sodium methoxide. A small amount of product
was obtained which gave an nmr spectrum consistent with the desired
material.®

£09bz6 TOOT
