, wy

Be
BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT

TRI
PGS-B075-96

PART I: EFFECT OF RECONSTITUTED TOBACCO ON
CIGARETTE SMOKE PROPERTIES

R. F. Shehadeh

August 26, 1996

Project 202
DISTRIBUTION
T.F. Rien! &.F. Price
R. R. Black RH. Honeycutt
S. Appleton J. H, Lauterbach
A.J, Golub R. F. Shehadeh
A, MeMurtria Library (2)
MMARY

‘This is the first part of a projact initiated to obtain baseline measurement on the effects of
B&W reconstituted tobacco, as welt as cigarette density variations, on smoke, physical,
chemical and sensory properties of cigaraties. Reconstituted tobacco inclusion teval in
cigarettes was varied from 0% to 24% in a VICEROY FF KS, WWE-9 blend, Cigarettes at
‘@ach recon inclusion level ware manufactured at three different densities,

\n this file rote, the results of recon inclusion levels and density variations on cigarette smoke
properties are reported. The main results found were:

+ Paper recons behave differently than CCL. Increasing the inclusion of paper recons in
the blend decreases the level of tar and pad nicotine but has no effect on cigarette puff
umber. On the other hand, increasing the inclusion of CPCL increases puff number with
9 effect on the level of tar or pad nicotine. All recons decreased tar/ouff and nicotine/pult
values and did not affect CO delivery or TPM for all cigarettes, regardless of dansity.

+ Goth paper (PJS, EBR and E50) and band cast (CPCt) recons, at all densities lowered
smoke pH. The pH decreased from approximately 6.75 to 6.45 as the inclusion level
increased from 0% to 24%, Measuring smoke ammania(1) and total acids(2) in smoke for
the set of cigaretes with CPCL, showed an increase ia ammonia, as welt as, lactic, formic
and acetic acids as the inclusion level of CPCL is increased In the blend. The increase of
acids in smoke contributes fo the decrease in smoke pH observed for CPCL. Smoke
ammonia and acids for paper recons were not measured in this study.

+ Regardless of recon inclusion level or the type of recon used, increasing cigarette density
increases puff number and, therefore, decreases tar/pulf. Density seams to have little
effect on cigarette TPM, CO delivery, tar levels, pad nicotine and smoke pH, probably due
to the variation in vent rata among cigarettes with different densities.

§66530022
