Discussion

‘Thus 90-day mhalalion study was conducted in rats to assess and quantify the reletve in-vivo
activiy of EHC emoke as compared lo IRAF smoke, and in order to complement the analytical
chamistry and oytotoxicity assays which showad, m comparison to the 1RéF cigarette,
‘substontally lower y elds of several tobacee smoke components of eoncem (Slapbert el al, 1999)
and a pronounced raduction in cytotoxicity (Tewas, 1999).

‘As can be observed from various concentration response curves for the low dase EHC and the
lower doses of the 1RAF, several sYacts ara only marginally differant from the sham control group
in this 6 hours/day, 7 daystwosk exposure regimen. However, doses much higher than the highsst
RSF concentration are nat feasible due to the occurrence of acute carban manoxide toxicity.
There is thus only 2 small ‘concentration ‘time window" that can be used in such an inhalation
study. Furthermore, the dynamle range, where differences in biological activity are miast ikely 10
be observad for mest end points, 1., above threshold and below saturation, is even smaller and
\ypically diferent ‘or each end point In the present design, a sufficient number of end points could
bbe quantitalvely evaluated to compare the biological aclmity in general, and the irritant ootency of
he 2 cigarotte types n the respiratory tract in particular

‘The comparative study design has been used to estimate the relativa potency af 2 wide range
cf chemicals ander pharmaceuticals such as TCDD (Jones, 1995), coticostercids (McCubb nef
al, 1995) and anrosel dalivary davieas (Fksirom at al. 1998), mostly by comparing singla or only
2 few end points. We have chosen this design in combination with an equateffect evaluaticn to
allow the assesement of a wi

range of distinctly nomtines

cesponses, while allowing the

assessment cf the balagical activity of the amoke fram the EHC on any relevant dosing
parameter.

In the smoke chemistry, the significant reduction in CO, a gas that has been associated with
cardiovascular disease, is among the most remarkable observations. At present the EHC
presents the only technology that actually raduces this component (relative to TPM yleld) by a
significant amount. In the present shudy dasign. tha anly and point responsive ta such a significant
decrease is carbexyhemogiabin: only a significant increase would have been detected through
cardlamagaly or necrosis of the cardiac muscle {Gaworsk af al, 1997), (Ayres at al, 1980) al
HbcO-tevels of 60% and abave,

2078576608
