qrep i 88

DIVISION + RESEARCH
SUBJECT TITLE : BYDRA

PERIOD COVERED : APRIL-JUNE 1988

WRITTEN BY 2 Piadé-J.-J. (JJP), Gerber-c. (CAG)
KEYWORDS : ets, nicotine, rsp, TSNA, NNK, solanesol

Obtain an analytical data-hase on ETS through indoor air
monitoring experiments.

STATUS

Equipment and methods
~ Collaborative studies.

In order to check the accuracy and the precision of our
methodology for nicotine analysis, XAD tubes spiked with known
amounts of nicotine were obtained from Dr M. Ogden (RUR) and
analysed blind. Additional tubes were spiked in-house and were
subjected to the same analytical procedure.

It was found that the difference between the results of the
analysis of duplicates was always less than 4% in the range of @
to 2-1 ug/tube.

‘The recovery Of nicotine from tubes that had been spiked in-house
was 958, The results were, however, systematically 10% too low
for the RJR samples. After discussion with Dr. Ogden, it was
apparent that the error could be traced to the spiking procedure,
as similar discrepancies had been observed both at RJR and other
external laboratories for several sets of tubes.

Another collaborative study was organised with TNO, an external
laboratory sub-contracted by S&T to do field analyses of BTS
components. This time, the purpose was to check their metho@s and
the study covered the analysis of respirable suspended particles
(RSP), carbon monoxide and nicotine in indoor environments.
Spiked XAD tubes were exchanged between laboratories for blind
analysis. In addition, a series of 3 joint experiments for BTS
monitoring were organised in an office at R&D Neuchatel: sampling
was done at the same time, using both PME and ‘No methods.

A report was written (1) and recommendations were made suggesting
modifications in TNO analysis of RSP.

- Solanesol analysis.

Further efforts are being made to improve the analytical
procedure. The points under investigation are:

+ choice of extracting and derivatisation solvents

+ lower the final GC temperature

: possibly change the internal standard.

obsettiosz
