. C, C
‘is COLITS TREATED SIGARETTE
REDUOES PIRE AND REALTH HAZARDS

Medical authorities (H.E.W.) have been urging the public to
atop smoking because they have found that cigarette smoking ts
dangerous to health.

Later, the same modical authorities advised the public as a
esult of a study, that smoking cigarettes with low “tars", 4s
sate for the public health. This study was done ag a mlti-
million doliar research project, financed by the cigarette manu~
Tecturers and by The Department of Health, Education and Welfare,
over many yeara-

In apite of ail she warnings against cigarette snoxlng,

cigarette production has been increasing year after year. It is

aon evident that olgarette sdokiog will continue for many years.

Tt is for these reasoas that it fs important that the public

should now be protected with a safer aigarotte. — .
Xb is’ doubtfw that cigarette manufacturing wil). be legally

banned, 4f one is to consider tho history of legislation on

alcohol. Alcohol waa banned by legislation at one time, but the

public voted its return.

‘he Colite treated cigarette is definitely. the safer cigarette, .
based on its fire resistance and Health protection.

The Colite treated cigarette is fire resistant when tested on
flammable aattrasses or on highly flaumable furniture fabrics.

‘ Authenticated Laboratory tests on our earlier development,
proved its reduction of "tars", nicotine and gases in the mainstream
(puffing smoke) and ita sharp reduction of "tars", nicotine and
a gases in the sidestrasy (smolder smoke), {compared with the sacs
Bunber of puffs on an untreated cigarette). Yhe suolder amoke is
reducsd to a wisp.

‘The sbove factors make the Golite treated cigarette a safer
cigarette. . . o

the advent of the Colite treated cigarette with its almost
"gmokess™ anolder could make the present aad future state laws
against smoking in certain public places unneccesaary.

obobszee

The Cizaret’ nufrcturers ‘

One of these manufacturers haa recently tested the Colite
treated cigarette, but refuses to reveal the results of their testa.

: . -r- |.” godtiaed

Form Ho, I679-E-A

