PROJEC’

¢B6-08309
T NUMBER: 1620

PROJECT TITLE: Electrophysiological Studies
PROJECT LEADER: FP. Gullocta

WRITTEN BY

©. §. Hayes

PERIOD COVERED: October, 1988

‘SAL -

Obsective: To develop methods ta objectively and reltably evaluate
human responses co cigarettes, snioke constituents and tobacco
flavorancs.

Resulte:
Cognitive NERP Study

Flavor disctimination experiments conparing natural and synthetic
menthol have been completed in ten subjects utilizing the cognitive
odd-ball paradign.? Both the electrophysielogical and the psycho-
physical data indicate that subjects ara good at differentiating
Between the two different menthola. A late positive component (LPC)
waa recorded to the natural aenthol targets that was not present or
extremely diminished co the synthetic standards. As expected, the
data revealed that this dizcrimination was wore difficult than the
60, vg natural menthol discrimination, That 1s, stimulus reaction
times vere longer and the LPCs ware smaller and longer in latency to
the synthetic/netural msnthol discriminstion ao compared to the
0,/natural menchel discrimination. Additionally, subjects made
more misses (L.e., failed to identify the target stimulus) and false
alaras (ie., responded to a standatd stiuulus as [f ic were a
target) tn the synthetic vs natural menthol discrimination. These
data confirm that a relationship exists betwean the LPC of che NERP
and discriminability. Furthermore, they indicate the utiticy of the
LPG technique for not only deteruining whether individuals can
diseriminate anong flavors, but also the degree of their diseriain-
ability.

Statistical analyzes aimed at quantifying the differences betwean
target and standard NERPs for both the CO, ya wentho) and natural vs
synthetic menthol. comparisons are currently fn progress. Analyses
are also being conducted on aissed targets as vell as false alaras.
Experiments comparing a mixture of natural and synthetic menthol co
1000 synthetic menthol have been initiated in the seme ten subjects.

Blane: Couplete testing of ten subjects in the cognitive paradign
Eonparing a mixture of natural and synthetic aenthol to 1008
synehetie menthol, Gontinus statistical analyses of the data from
both the CO, vg natural menthol and the natural vs synthetic
menthol conpatisons in order to quantify the differences betwean the
responses.

Reference: Martin, B. R, Notebook No. 8689, pp. 85-109.

Ststzez202
