DRAFT

ENVIRONMENTAL TOBACCO SMOKE
INDOOR AIR QUALITY AND THE NEED FOR ADEQUATE VENTILATION

Indsor_Air Qualliy

During the past decade, the geseral public has become increasingly concemed about indoor air
‘quality (IAQ). The concern has been stimulated by a variety of factors, ranging from reports of
illnesses believed to be caused by air quality problems in individual buildings to the actions of

single-iesue pressure groups - particularly an

-stboking organisations secking to have smoking
workplaces.

‘restricted or banned in public pisces ax well a8 in offices and other

A-stariety_of- studien from sround the world,-cOhndveted in many different settings, have
conficaied that iobiiccd smoke"in the air ~-offen referred to as envizonment tobacce smoke

CETS") - is typically a minor contributor to indoor

air, Indeed, only a few constituents of

‘Sigareite smoke have beea analyzed in indoot air. For example, in an extensive survey of 585

smoking and non-smoking office environments in the

US, researchers sampled for a number of

tie quality factors inctuding respirable suspended pacticles (RSP), nicotine, carbon monoxide,

carbon dioxide, room size, average number of roo

mI occupants, and number of cigarettes

Found that... in most cases realistic smoking levels
influence the aspects of air quality thal were studied, and spillover from

ventilated offices with a moderate amour of smokin,

minimal.” ‘The researchers also concluded

-air qualiy can be taaintained in properly
ig, even without smoking segregation.

[Other studies bave reported consistent reaults for a variety of chemical constituents of indoot

salt, where ETS made only a small contribution hy mass:- 2.5% to partilge from all sources as
by the persgrial monitor (Phillips ef af , 1994), 6% to total valatike onganic chernicals

(Heavner ef al . 1995), 15% to carboo monoxide (Pedeltyes af, 1990). and 20% 10

suspended particuimes (Oidaker et af . 1990), Even in the case of odour, ETS was found by}

«The literature and the research do not support the position thet smoking in office buildings can
\ only be managed by either banning or restricting the activity to a separstely ventilated apace

3 \ trained sniffing panels to contribute up &6'oply 24% of the tetal odour kevel (Fanger, 1991

* (Hedge, 1994),

A fecently published European tAQ study (Bluyssen ef al, 1995), funded in part by the

‘Commission of the

‘Communities in the framework of the JOULE It Programme,

inclided an audit of office bulldings across nine European countries (including the United
Kingdom). An especially exiensive number of contributing sources was studied: flooring,

glues, paints, wax, office machines, cleaning agents,
ducts, smoke, consumer products, outdoor traffic,
concluded that the most important determinants of in

ners. humidifiers, heat exchangers, air
and industrial pollution. ‘The authors
door air quality in the sudited buildings

wore the materials andi furnishings in the offices and the ventilation system. ‘The occupants

‘were a less significant source,

Yey few indoor air constinsents are unique to ETS. However, BTS may be easily identified by
its distinctive odour. Consequently. many people attribute theit discomfort or health problems
to other people's smoking. “In fact, when veitlation is inadequate, indoor air contaminants
(many of which are odourless or invisible) from other sources can accumulate. Banning
Smoking may not thea significantly reduce people's overall exposure to these airborne
subsiances, and may welt be only a cosmetic solution, at best. In an adequately ventilated
Building, all indoor air contaminants are effectively removed, oF diluted to levels that challenge

the detection limits of the most sophisticated analytical

methods.

sreazizosz
