PROJECT NUMBER:

PROJECT TITLE: Tobaccn Physiology and Biochemistry
PROJECT LEADER :

WRITTEN BY :

PERIOD COVERED : November, 1995

L

1904

D. 5. AyerttO, J. Paasken
H, ¥. Nakatant

LOW NICOTINE STUDY
A. Objective: To ttvesiges the Giochemistry of the rlesne bioeyraheatapallnay and
{use this information to generate tobacco plants with reduced nicotine levels.

Results: Root extracts were pooked snd further frectlonsied through the phenyl:
Sepharose stage of parification, PMT-actlve peak and ull fractions were pooled,
dinlyeed and fronen at -80°C (1). Other root extracts from the Group 31 tobacco
plents weee processed In a modified roanner for preparative ge! permention
Chromatography. ‘The ammonium sulfate preciplisre was remspended in 15 mt
aliquots, vitra-centifaged at 48.000 rpm for 2h, and stored frozen in $ ml eiquots #t
rc,

PMT-active saroples from x preparatory gel permeation colunn were subjected’ to
phenyl-Sepharose chromatography: however, no PMT-active fractions could be eluted
from te column (2.3).

Feasibility studles with non-radinlsbeled sulftyriryl reagents were conducled to
evalune radiolabeling experiments for PMT comfinostion, since PMT tx known is
require dithlothreliol ot emercaptoetnano! for maximal sctlvity. N-cthylmaleimide
‘and jodoacetuae were examined, but nelther was found (0 be prosaising (4),

Fonher endies were conducted of the 60 kD band(s) by reversed-phase HPLC by
subatitucag a Supelcosil LO-308 column for the Supelcostt XM column. A
prominent (280 nm) peak was obtained after revereed-phass chrometogrephy:
Jowever, uo distinct proteln bands were observed by SDS-PAGE for Uus fraction.
“These results wre similar t0 that observed previously with the LC 304 column (3).

“The following sequence for the 60 kD band oblained from the native gel
electrophoresis sample was obtained: xas.sas,xea.een.pheteu.phe dev, phegiyuhr (13).
‘The 4th through Sth amino acid cyckt correspond exactly with that previously
determined for the 60 KD band(=) (om other fesctlonations of the barch sample.
Batch samples are presently Delag processed uwough HPLC ge! permesiion
chromatography 10 obuin ruffcienl mascrial for possibic polyclonal antbody
production (6).

“The in-house ABI (model 392) DNA oligoryrihesizer was used 10 synthesize &
geumbet of DNA cligonucleotides, Some cf the oligewuclectides were primere
deslgned from ihe N-ierminal amino wcld sequence for the pulative 6 KD PMT
protein, Other oligonucleotides were symbesined to examine antlecnse constructs and
the presence of the CaMV promoter in iransgente planes. Studles have been initiated

‘cor-0020?

0681 ES0907

