reseise

DAVID N. KENDALL, PH.D.
commuLTiie citeniaT 4n0 SPEEIRORCOTIET
TMPRARED SPECIALIST

September 30, 1954

Dr. Harrie B, Paragie, Director of Renearch
P, Lorillara, Inc.

211 Farat Street.

Jersey City 2, Me J.

Report #2049

Dear Dr. Paruole:

Pollowing 1s ay ninth sonthly report, 20.2049, covering
four éay’a infrared work on tobeoco emoxe during Septesber

1954:

During Septeabe:

aa many

possible of the chewical couponente present in the

12 wacke solutions prepered at P. Lor: by taking up

juocessively in water, ethyl alcohol, toluene, and ecetone
the sacke from 63 digarettes which had been passed through
3 ary flasks ~ tha first (nearest to the cigarettes) main-

‘tatned at room tei

am the

‘thind at dry ioe temperature, This identification

was accomplished by comparing the infrared spectra of the
eacke solutions with the spectra of imow compounds of types
whove prosonce was indicated by proliminary interpretation

of the spectra.

‘known spectre were found in “Infrared

Speotrossony’ ‘by Bates, Gore, Lidéel, and Williams, in
sTntrared Determination of Organio Structures* by Rendall,

Fowler,
as
2

Bas

a

Puson, and Dangl, and in my spectra files.

‘Ethanol was found to be present in the solution
spectre of the Acetone Solubles at Room tesperature,
Ioe-NeCl teaperature, and Dry ice temperature.
substantial concentration of ethanol was present in
‘the Ice-iaCl temperature solution, but only at a
foe fav Room tenperature, ant only 4 trece at Dry
Ine temperature.

Methylene chloride waa found to ba present in sub-
stantial consentration in the solution speotra of
the Acetone Solubles at Roca texperature, Toe-MaCl
temperature, and Dry Toe teuperature.

Ethanol was found to ba present in the elution mpec-

tra of the Toluene Solubdlse at Hoom temperature
We0) teaporature, ani Dry Ice Teaporsture.

¥o pyridine, methyl earylate, or ethyl acstate is
sent in the spectra of the Acetone @olubles at
foe- NaCl temperature, run after polvent evaporation.

+ tho tine available was apent identifying

aperature, the second at ioe-NaCl teaperature,

3
