CTR PROGRESS REPORT
(for Competing Renewal Application)

Grant pamber _2233BRI Progress Period from 1/1/94 ¢g, 12/1/99

Name oflavesigatr: en M Lanier, PRD.

‘Tide of Original Grant: Regulation of Signalling by Alphay- Adrenergic ‘Receptors
‘Abstract of tha Specific Aims a4 stated in the origiual application:

‘The objective of the applicant's research efforts is to define

ity in the signaling
process and to determine how the cell, in the midlt of very, signalling pathwaye,
integrates the multiple signals it receives to generate a specific reeponee. An ultimate goal ef his
work so use tis tooiedge ose ee therapeutic approaches that target determinants
of signalling specificity.

Specific Aims:

1) Identify the proteins that account for the differences in signal transft from. to
Cpr tentracoamt cells stably transfected ith the Oxqypnedrenengic
receptor.

2) Peres the clement thateocount for sue specific regulation expnesion ofthe tag
and ayc-adrenergic receptor subtypes.

Lise alt publications (eathor, ttle and Journal) conulting from the current CTR award that contain

‘For mannsccipts, the designarion
publication by

in pews” means you have a preprint: otherwise use "accepted for
“submitted for publication to." ot “in preparation,”

Do not list publications that do not acknowledge CTR support.
Tian W-N, Lanier SM, Duzie E and Deth RC. Determinants of

ic receptor
Activation of G-proteins: Evidence for a precoupled state ‘of receptor and G-protein.
‘Mol Pharmacol (1994) 45:524-531.

Whovic B, Bakthavachalam V, Zhang W, Parinl A, Diz D, Bosch S, Neumeyer JL and Lanter
semattelopment of a high atinity radiolodinated Ygand for sata

midizoline / guanidinium receptive sites IGRS): inatsoue diate OF IGRS in

forebrain, kidney and liver. Bol Pharmacol (1994) 4615 25,

Brasil L, Pigini M, Maruoci G, W, Maleusi L, Lanier SM and B Lanier. Separation of
=f 3 Quagtia Y Malan

‘and imidazoline, ive sites (IGRS) activity in a serien
imidnzoline analogues of cirazoline, Bioorganic & Maceo Chemistry (1995) 3(11):

1503-1509.
CONTINUED ON ATIACHED PAGE
1. Report of Prograss (no more than four (41 pages, please.)

Stople separately. Do not staple this CTR Progress Repor ta the ‘Application Form,
2. Abstract of CTR Progress Report (on: oh

Prlude your Name, Grant munber and the Tite of your pojece

Pe ut staple his Abatact of CTR Progress Report vo the Agplictina Form of to the Report of Progress.

caPRoaDoC ayes

50717406.
