—ooee

CTR PROGRESS REPORT
‘Submit this form with Secoad Reoewal oaly; do aot submic with a First Reaewal.

1. Grant number _£100 2, Progress Period from_assnises tot_95/31/96
(Period described in this repom

3. Nauue of Investigator: . stephen L- Sturley

4. Title of Original Graot: Decerainancs of Secretion of Hunan Apoltpoproreia 3

5. Abstract of the Specific Aims as stated in the ariginal application
The original specific aims of this project as proposed in 1994 were:
To identify genetic factors that regulate secretion of apoB.

To determine the role of intracellular lipid transfer activity in apoB secretion.
To investigate the role of protein-protein interactions in the secretion of apoB.

The unifying concept to these aims is the action of gene products, other than
apoB, that regulate secretion of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins via specific apoB sequences.
Specific aim 1 will identify host genes and apoB sequences that affect apoB-mediated
secretion. Specific aim 2 investigates the particular role of an established mediator of apoB
secretion, microsomal triglyceride transfer protein, Specific aim 3 will identity proteins that
have the capacity to bind to apoB, some of which will also affect apoB secretion. The
accomplishment of these aims will significantly contribute to our understanding of the
components of sterol regulatory systems and lipoprotein biogenesis. Once identified, these
components will be ideal candidates for therapeutic and diagnostic intervention.

6. Repart of Progress.
‘Altact to this form no more than 4 pages describing your progress in she fast 18 months.
(Gtaple separately. Do nar sxaple or atfix this CTR Progress Report to the Application Form.)

7. List all publications (author, title aad journal) resuiting from the curreat CTR award
that contain a pri mM .
For maguscripts. tbe designation “in press’ méaas you save a prepnnc: otherwise use
“tceepted for publiestion by ...",“sibeited for publicatioa” oc “i preparation”.
Do not list publications that do nat acknowledge CTR suppor.

1 Laboissiere, M., S. L. Sturley and R. Raines. 1995. The Essential Function of Protein
Disulfide isomerase is to Unscramble Nonnative Disulfide Bonds. f. Biol. Chem. 270:
28006-28009.

Gretch, D. G., $. L, Sturley, L. Wang, B. A. Lipton, A. Dunning, K. A. Grunwald, K. A.
A. Grunwald, J. Wetterrau, Z. Yao, P. Talmud and’. D. Attie. 1996. The Amino-
Terminus Of Apolipoprotein B fs Neccessary but not sufficient For Microsomal
‘Triglyceride Transter Protein Responsiveness. J. Biol. Chem. 271; 8682-8691.

e 3. Laboissiere, M., §. L. Sturley and R. Raines. 1996. Expression of rat Protein Disulphide

Isomerase in yeast strains deleted of the endogenous gene. Biochem. J. Submitted for
publication:

