Puitite MORRIS USA CONEIOENTIAL

PROGRAMNUMBER: 920101-04
PROGRAMNAME : Domestic Product Development & Support - Flavor Technology

PROGRAM COORD. :  R. H.Cox/C. 5. Kroustilis

WRITTEN BY Contributors
PERIOD COVERED +: Founh Quarter, 1992

PROJECT GRAIN

(Coordinator Summary: This program ison schedule. Implementation of alcohol-free BTC and 5%

alcotol reduction in al applicable aftereuts will begin in February, 1993, Successful factory wials
were conducted in Australia with participation from R&D and IOS.

J. Objective: incremental alcobol reduction in aftezout (AC).

A. Strategy: Conduct factory wials with reduced alcohol levels in AC in conjunction with,

alcohol-free Burley Top Casing (BTC),
1. Results: A suecessful Merit KS tial with 61% total alcobol reduction was conducied
at Cabarrus. Subjective parity was achieved.

2. Plans; Continue with planned incremental alcoho! reduction evaluations and support,
‘implementation as ecded.

3, Contributor: $, Ruziak.

B, Strategy: Reduce/rearrange PG in favor system in combination withatcohol-free BTC
and AC alcoll reduction.

1. Results: Models for POL 03044 with 67% total alcohol and 25% PG reductions were
‘prepared and released for shipment, The POL test will close on November 20, 1992.

2, Plans: Since the initial alcohol reduction is scheduled for First Quarter 1993 factory
implementation, additional factory trials will be conducted aftcr ihe initial
impiementation, Factory tials will be conducted ducing the Second Quarter 1993

ith 52% otal alcohol and 25% PG reductions, If POL results are acceptable, factory

tials will be conducted with 67% total alcohol and 25% PG reductions during Third

Quarter 1993. Implementation will be supported on an as-needed basis.

C, Strategy: Remove all alcohal from AC's in Australian brands to conform with

‘government flash point requirements,

1. Resutts: During October, eleven Australian factory trials were successfully
‘conducted on the Marlboro, Alpine, Star and Phocnix flavor systems. Sonolation,
reduced applications and solvent replacement were used to prepare the AC's for the
twials, Cigareties were produced for analytical and subjective evaluations.

2, Plans: Anclytically and subjectively evaluate cigarettes from each trial, Select the
best models and mon additional tials as needed. Ofer suppor for implementation.

Piniise Moneis USA CONFIDENTIAL PAGE27

eees.Tz202
