at #. ry
Fed loncds_
SUMMARY OF RESULTS TABLES

@ Ot CHBEROTHERAPY BXPERIUBHTS

Taly 1954-2955

Explanation of tables

Foe The compounds are numbered consecutively
Compound « Structural formilse are given, for in most cases no unequivocal

namo can be asaig~ned,

Compounds are classified into the following categoriess~
1. ffalonates, 2, ilitriles. 3. Hydrazides.
4. Pyridines, piperazines and pyrimidines. 5, Thio
compounds. 6, Eeurotropic drugs, including
phenothiazines and antihistamines. 7, Alkaloids
and hydrolysis products, 8, Carbamates,
9, Phosphorus derivatives, 10, Plant extracts.
Li, Hiscellansous, 12, Coubined drugs.
13, Combined X-ray and Chenothersy7. 14, Compounds
tested on Urethane induced pulmonary adenomas.

Tumor &
Speotes 755 Uanmary Carcinoma in C57 Black mice
8-180 Sarcoma in Tebstor mice
G-1i98 fiyeloia Leukemia in 057 Black mice
Thrlich decites Tumor in ‘ebster mice
@ Heuroblastoma C1300 in Strain A mice
Urethane induced Pulmonary Adenomas in Strain 4 mice

Dose is given in mg/ mouse (mg/m) «

g

» tre Total number of treatments (Io. tr.) is given.

Tr, start. Day the treatment is stingted (tr. Start) relative to the
ey the tumor is transplanted is given hero, If on the same
dey the velus is "1", on the day before the number is "-1",

Tuner Effect The results are graded according to the fgMewjng;, for solid
tumors the valuo (-) ds recofed if theytundr of tho
treated group is 60 % ox greater of the untreated controls.
Between 30% and 60 % the value is 1+ . If leas than 30%
the value is 2+.

For both leukenfa and ascites tumors tho mean survival time
of the treated animals relative to the untreated controls
4p recorded, A three day extension of life beyond the
untreated controls is significant.

Host Effect ‘Tho effect of tho drug on the host and the relative toxicity
of the drug can be noted by the ratio of the nunber of
living animals couparcd to tho untreated controls, and by the
yatie of weight gain of the treated animals relative to the

r untreated contrsis,

