INBIFO Institut for biologische Forschung GmbH - Koln PRIORITY

96/04 "BS 18:17 Bode 2R08 sodsez INBIFO Roela s+ GNI GPA RSG aovs/oos

F-RE00  6FebSS  - FGURPE -XASPIMISC\SS00_EL3.DOG

‘The Hlectrophysiologlcal Effects of Sniffing a Pleasant Odor (Vanillin)

Previous investigations ‘© have demonstrated that Ihs Fy latency of the pattern reversal
evoked potential (PREP) Is decreased by nlectine as delivered In cigarette smoke. In contrast,
the effects of emoking on PREP P,-Nz amplitude appear to be unralated to nicotine dativary,
Rather, changes In P,-Nz amplitude seem to reflect how cigarettes sre evaluated. For example,
in a study where nicotine was hald constant §, it was found that changes in Py-Np amplitude
were correlated with “liking” scares. In another siusiy where nicotine was replaced with menthol,
PyNp amplitude changes wera correlated with mentholrelated “impact” acores. Finally, in @
recently completed study, tLwas showm that Py-N, amplitude changes were positively correlated
‘with Impact’, ‘Iking’, and “satisfaction” scores and negatively comelated with ‘ot-taate scores.
‘The results of the studies cited above euggest thet P,-N; amplitudes are reflecting the process
of evalustion. Thia idea Is consistant with the hypothesis thet later eventalated potential (ERP)
components are more reflective of cognkive processes than of stimulus characteristics &

To better understand the relationship betwsen the PREP and sublective evaluations we
proposa to conduct a pllot study on the elfects of a pleasant odor on PREP amplitudes.
Specifically, we propase to record the PREP before and after eniffing a solution of 10 % vanitin
io propylane glycol), The subjects for the study (INBIFO voluntaars) would be 2 or 3 deprived
smokers and 2 oF 3 nonsmokers.

INBIFO etudy F 050079202,
“The eleetropnysllogical and subjective effects of emaking cigarettes wilh constant tar but varying
rlesine levels,
Study director: F. Guilotta
at yet reported
Phase t ART atudy,
PM Memo te H. L Spielberg,
28 Mar. BO
© The tfects of suanestion on cigaretie evaluation and the petiern reversalavaked potential,
PA Meme fo H. L. Spielberg,
42 Dect
Dunean-Johnson, ¢.6., Oonchia, E.,
‘On the quentifeatio of surprise: The varia af avant-reisted potentials wth subjective probability,
Paychophysiology 14 (5): 458-497 (1977)

OSeOECOSOE
