observation and was found dead the morning of Day 2, The remaining fenale
appeared lethargic one hour after dosing, was normal six hours after dosing,
continued to appear normal through Days 2, 3 and the morning of Day 4, tut
developed 8 ¢rust around the mouth by the afternoon of Day 4 and this was
sts) present on Gay 5.

In the 2500 ag/kg (multiple dose) group, one mie appeared nora) on
bay 1, was prostrate the morning of Oay 2, lethargic the afternoon of Day 2
and the lethargy persisted throughout the observation period, The second male
was lethargic the moratag of Day 1, normal that afternoon, prostrate the
morning of Day 2, and lethargic the afternoon of Day 2, Thts lethargy
persisted until the animal's death twenty-four hours following the last
dose. Both females displayed lethargy on Day 2, prostration the morning of
Day 2 and both were found dead the afterngon of Day 2.

At the 1000 mg/kg dose level, both males and one female appeared normal
on Day 1 and lethargic from the worning of Day 2 through the afternoon (stx
hoves post-dose) of Day 4. Twenty-four hours after the last dose, these three
animals appeared thin, had bunched pasture and rough haircoats, One of the
males and the female also had a crust around the mouth at this observation.
‘The second female was lethargic tne morning of Day 1, normal the afternoon of
Day 1, lethargic the morning of Day 2 through the Day 4 stx hour observation,
and returned to normal twenty-four hours after the last dose.

No abnormalities were observed in animals dased for four days with
500 eg/kg of A-56,

Prostration is considered a toxic sign 1 ft occurs at any. tine inter~
val. For Pnase I: Single Dose, lethargy is adjudged. to be a sign of toxicity
{f observed six hours or longer after dosing, For Phase 1: Repeated Dose,
lethargy 1s considered a toxic effect ff it cccurs six to twenty-four hours
following the last dose, Tables’ 1 and 2 present the clinical signs for
Phases I and IT, respectively.

Mortality
One male and one female were found dead the morning of Day 2 after a
single dase of A-56 at $000 ng/kg.

otssycoo

BLT #1823(1)

