Karen L. Bennett
1. Report of Progress (init uf four pages)

‘This past year has been a watershed for reaching the goals as set out in the currently-tunded
CTR grant. We have established that both gerniline helicases, GLH- 1 and GLH-2, are germ granule
components. A manuscript coporting GLH-1 and GLH-2 as the fitst nematade P granule
components ta be identifiad has just been submitted to the Proceedings of the National Academy
of Science, USA., Appendix 6C-5. If accepted, it will be the secand PNAS paper to result from
this CTR support, Since last year we have completed the genamic sequorces of gih-¥ and gihi-2,
as well as isolating the 6” end of the farer git-2 eDNA to complete the characterizations of the
yits. Analyses of these sequences enabled us to devise several eynthetic peptides that were
specific for one or the other protein. We have praduced a saries of specitie palyclonal antibodies
in rabbits and chickens, Three different 23 aa peptides wore synthesized and canjugated to KLH
(keyhole limpet hemocyanini, BSA and biotin. We were successful in generating our fust aGLH-2
antibodies in a rabbit. We also produced antibodies in chickens after finding their pre-immune sera
either completely unreactive or only weakly reactive to worm protein ipre-immune rabbits, by
conteast, are often reactive with worm protein}. One month after immunizations, all four chickens
produced either aGLH-1 or @GLH-2 antibodies. These antibodies are specilically reactive. By
western analysis of total worm protein each recognizes a single protein of the expected size; by
inununocytochemistey with embryos, adult heemaphrodites and ma'es, each is germline specitic,
Figures 3 and 4, Appendix 6C-5. The chicken, and previousty-generated mouse @GLH-1
antibodies, have been affinity purified against fusion poptides’protains, We have used the affinity
unified antibodies from these (wo species in dualtabeled fuorescent confocal microscopy. Figure
5, below, demonstrating the two GLH proteins progressively co-locahze to the germline F cel
hneage in the early embryonic division of C. elegans.

Antisense Injections have given us the first glimpse into the functian of the germline RNA
helicases. We and aur collaborators, the Strome laboratory at Indiana U... letter, Appandix 68-1
have used antisense RNA injections, with git. and gih-2. Appendix 6C-S and with the three
families of C. elegans cyetin genes, the cyclin A, Bs and 83s, Appendix 6C-4, and pg. 5, this
Progress Report. Injection of an in vitro-syathesized, capped antisense git-? or gih-2 RNA inte the
distal arm of the syneyvel hermaphrodite gonad causes ~10% of the progeny of the injected
worms 10 develop into sterle adults with under-proliferated germlines. A control antisense
injection of unc-54 RNA, coding for the myesin gene, produces ~ 10% uncoordinated warms, and
no adult steriles, Appendix 6C-S. The sterile worms fail to stain with ether @GLH antibody, or
wath any of the other antibodies against P granules that have been raised by our collaborators to
undetermined epitopes 115,171, ‘These findings, of a "phenocopy” of a gif) mutation, imply that
ether wild type git-1 or gih-2 or both genes are reauired fos normal germiine development and that
these genes are critical for P qranule assembly. It is now important (o generate and analyze
mutations in these genes to resolve if the phenotypes of lesions in the two git genes can be
differentiated and to determine the cause of the steviity.

Fig. §. Confocal images: C.elegens

embryos dual labeled with aGLH-1 (red:

TRITC, @GLH-2 igreen: FITCH, both

tyellow!. Left to right {top) fertifized egg.

2..6-, {bottom 24-, > 60-cell, "two-fold"

sieges (421, At >60-cell the P, cell has

divided: at the “two-fold” stage, the

embryo is on it's side and the two germ

cell precursors aro atop one another.

Alter the 2-cell stage, the background in

the non-germtine lineagos had to be

e eomputer-enhanced to see the outline of
the embryos; using these atfinity-purified

antibodies almost no GLH-1 or GLH-2 is

x detected in the pre-somatic cells.
3

50660066.
