This 1a a ptoposal to develop and scody # model eysten containing
Supor initiarors (complete carcinogens) and tumor promoters in concens
trations comparable to those of cigarette smoke condensate (CSC). Pre-
Aiwinary work has shown that such a wodel is feasible and would be of
very great value in interpreting the results of couventional bioassays
of GSC. By assaying the tuoorigenic activity of the proper mixtures of
Socarcinogans, We cin determine how ouch change in concentration of then
Se required to produce a given effect on the mouse skia tumorigenic
activity. Tak is, ve cau calibrate the sovsa skin bioassay syeten 40 0
quantitative analytical tool co measure cocarcinogens in the concentrations
found in CSC.

The pilot studies which sre nov nearly couplate vere designed couse -
4 mixture of benzdl]pyxene (BP) and 12-0-recradecanoylphorbolB-acerate
(2B) to concentrations having both {nitiating activity and promoting
scelvity equal to that of 30% GSC. In addition, « settes of aclutions {0
Wetch one or the other of tha tvo agents vex reduced in concentration we
used. Prelininary tence indicated that as an {uitistor, 30% GSC vas aboot
gquivalent to 20ngo of BP per mi of solution, Likeviae, aa e promoter,
30% CSC var approximately equivalent to 1.33 ng of ME per ul. Accordingly,
solutions containing either 20 or 10mga of SP per pl and 1.33, 0.67, 0.33, a
or 0-17 age of FE per wl vere prepared. In all, efght solutions containing
am eigh’ fold raoge of phorbol enter aod a twondold range of benzsiel eyrenn
used Gt the Lime, ue vers cnaedly concerned with reduction of promoter
levels in CSC and concantrazed our reacurces accordingly), These solutions
were painted on groups of 264-282 mice using mathods eaployed in this
Asboratory for the routine study of CSC solutions. Briefly, the mice
were treated with 0.2 al of solution tuice each working day. Thay
vare ixomined weekly ond the distribution and dncidence of tumors waa
Bored. Although the last animals ara scili on experiaent, the results
are sufficiently complete to perait evaluation.

The crude tumor inctdance with tine (GhartelA and 3) among the various :
stolips was somewhat unexpected inasmuch as the lasst coucentrated solution i
‘Appeared to be auch more active than 20% CSC whereas the most concestrated !
solution vas designed to mimic 30% CSC. Tu other respects, the data chow

fairly typicel dose-dependent incidence curves. It is often the case te |
studies of moderately activa carcinogens that tha greatest differences in

Timor incidences between groups which differ only moderately in concer
Gration oscurs during the intermediate perfods af the experiment. We have
agen this type of a result in 4 series of experinenta with experimental,
GSC solutsons (Chart 2). This requires that mathemstical treataents of
expevinental daca take into consideration all of the data collected
throughout the experiment, rather thon only the Cotal quabers of tumors
Geen at given points in tine or at the termination of the study. ‘re

9z990z4e202
