2807
Radiochanseal Torentiget ions
5. B, Naseem

Yapruery, 191

pereiop metnods for collection snd radiosnalysis of 85
quiaatine aceon labanied with }*C-gnyseroh-

Ao altarnetive

gonsistiog of diehive and impioger traps to
collect $3 end cTeponents from the pene cigarette. TA
cot leck Japenant maak # swept through t10 COO7E ‘and & Cambridge
thiter ped isp Vad of tie Line co collect

fUelesiaces, in a second sraagensol te silver ped Sa placed
peresseseiewed by two Craps to collect 90 Pave amponents.

tniesatiy « sooting chaabec of the type 9288 120 Sava, waa
ree eed. Se ehole smoke fron 2 OR Ot
iRoprudigctivay wae avept Cree throes Sy crepe containing 2+
{eorediarion vo exep carbonyles followed XY & fhltec pad wich:
OHH etea in 2,4-0MeR aotucson after wakirg Ty completed. KS
was placer ag calbectad in ene same way. M2 TE ‘enaiyses of
whole ye phages. abowad enat chia collectice $2507 tas effective
we oing carbonyls of incereat| The malo ‘Gaxbony) in the

ie Reeppitdap was acataldanyén, with Lessee So0s of acrolelo:
Hiatt 58 Coptonaiaanyde end Foceelahrte, 720 necond $8 tE0P
seston iuced ammunca of acutaldenyde and *2000%%7 with Be
showed Ene omeunte of the other ceeponyla. The 35 pad extract

ae eeetted ame fopansdenyde and acetone, Te “charber wes rinsed
can pecONPH and RE-HFUC anaiyoio shoved, Tormldanyde to be the
Se ceaponyl peenent. a the cues of 8 Soe ‘tees zap

maser corrrceeatdanyde, with lepeer anounes OF aczolein, acotone
Gontatnet oneldehydey ene sacond rer ong HS Pd featract contained
And Prgerable ancunes ef cheae CecDOnYT#,

a cnasber of tne type used for cha cotel Fecceset sroking sachine
A chamioee ot sorigated. Tele chasbar so considers Tf) be more
wee ane dor ese wien radiolabeled clgesetses (220 ‘tha SAYA,
saaeet Gnces noncadkonct ive cigecentes Tere, seoked: 264,
Sarin fcode, 36371 ane 388 ETOR 2 eae Jeol. RP-HPLC analysts
Mon Shanes, from the IAL and 26% CHgLOws oe
af amegaily che sane profiie of carbony}s 48 dancrined above.
Tee ER Tyais of sanpien Exon O8 MaKoM  chTesekee? eats
progress.

smoking axpecinente snvolring cottection of pacticulece matter
Broking stowed by soiucion trapping of ga2 Ae conponenta, ave
Ferre ee gone,  (RP-HPUE anadyaea axe Pending) -

a. nenied type of 55 coblectlon done (originals used for 00/C0s
Bargeisy was assembled, In conjunction with ¢ ‘single port syringe

6a

LISSTOCZO®
