15:38 R49 2203 303982 INBIFO Koeln ++- CEL Booz

10-07

EROMWO: ERO\COMMENTSPEREZ DOC Paget

SHORT COMMENTS to

Nicotine Metabolism and intake in Black and White Smokers.
by B.J. Perez-Stable et al., JAMA (1998), 280, 152-156,

Findinge:

The authors claim that thelr study show that

° Total and nonrenal clearance of nicatine were not different, however, total and
ponrene! clesrance af catining were significantly lower (17 % and 23 %, respectively) in
blacks than in whites.

+ Cotinins haif-ife was higher (12 %) in blacks.
Nicotine intake per cigarette was higher (30 %) in blacks,

Study Design:
40 and 39 biack and white smokers
infusion of deuterium-labeled nicotina and cotinine

uring and bioad sampling
ad libitum smoking of cigarattes

Comments (based on the shart version of the publicatian taken from JAMAS website):

* The appliad method is the state-of-the-art realization of an elegant scientific approach
(Gual stable isotope method with nicotina d2 and cotinine d4). The method gives an
estimate! for the nicotine uptake of an individual on tho basis of his cotinine tevel
regardless of his nicotine/cotinine conversion rate or of changes in ather metaballsm

pathways,
* The data proviced by the authors, in fact. give the Impression that there ia a trend for
minor differences ia nicotine metabolism between biacks and whites.
~ However, this is net totally inconceivable. ethnical differences in metabalism have
been reported for several compaunds. This [a not the first paper on differences in
Sicotine metabolism between blacks and whites.
~The ditfarsnce in cotinine hettuife is statistically not significant (p = 0.07). That
means, compared to the normal biological variability of this parameter the

difference is quite smail.
~ Aas the clearance of nicotine Htseif Is not different between whites and blacks, there

should be no difference in any biological effect of nicotine.
+ The estimated higher nicotine uptake per cigarette in blacks might ba real.
~ Differences in smoking behavior (puff frequency, and/or puff volume, and /or butt
fength} might be attributable for the reported difference,
~ In the absenes of any data, differences in cotinine level might simply raflect
Giferences in the nicotine delivery of the cigarettes smoked,

£0rSesoo9z
