WE.

BOD

KEE

COAGULATION AND. FILTRATION OF HAINSTREAH CIGARETTE SHOKE wend
TW THE TOBACCO ROO ‘OF A CIGARETTE BOF x

David W

oldridge and Bradley J. Ingebrethsen

research and Sevalapnent Deparinent
‘powesn aray Technical Canter
Beye Reynolds Tobacco Copy
winston-salem, North Carol ica BT102 U.S.A.

KEY woRDs: Smoke, FAltratics Coaguiation

ye__ INTRODUCTION

Mainstrean cigarette smoke 08% pighty concentrated aerosol that

undergoes both coagulation nd ake Stion as. at travels TRCOUED & tobacco rod.

undergorents of the particle Ste istribution and number’ Kancentration of

wevastyean smoke exiting THe racithend of the esgarette dU°19 % puff were Rade

Smoke Pobacea vod Tengths. f Chgarethas. been developed Wice

thation and size distributor of the

The model 13 based on

‘aerosols. The predicted

4 total aerosol mass 27e
ned values.

Th, ERPERINEMTAL

‘tne experimental apparatus used 5 this work measures the particle Sove
aiguributfor af 2 fresh, sat luted einpie of mainstream, smoke DY ensenble
sist scattering (izgebrethsen), Cigurettes were smoked in the reverse puff
Waeeatus shown in Figure 1. Ioeiaa' the pat, ene Wt cigarerte Ys enclosed
ap retractable glass chan ng the PuSyeunge pum forces #17, Ute ‘the
fn Ane Grd through the cigaTene the syoduce 2 2-second, | 38-66 sine
chambehaped puff of smoke. & Oo im sao gtaintess steel tude selene 1 small
wareion of the center of Ane eer ream and passes thls, poneen ‘through the
porting machine face pate. A vac, am ag used to a¢rogymantcnyty focus
See eye surean issuing from the ue Tiary tube and draw the, strsor ‘through
te Sbservatian region. | smoke ne ich does not pass through the capillary 3s
the obsehy a snalt vacuum pump pricr f° ‘the succeeding puff.

A vertically polarized argon 190 taser bean (514 ne) intersects the
grove stream in the observat tor agin. seattered light, is detected by an
smoke oer gnielaeo protediades (Tas. Ty placed at 30°, 600» go, 120, ard
Tepe’ relative to the interrogating weer bean. Light intensities 77 acquired
ory 20 ms during the pore by 4 a A eierogrammer (Hewlett-Packard node? 69824)

620347130
