CHARGE NUMBER: 2515

PROJECT TITLE: —-Flavor-Release Chemistry
PROJECT LEADER: ¥. Houminer:

PERIOD COVERED: January 1-31, 1982

DATE OF REPORT: February 9, 1982

Last year we reported the preparation of a few carbonates derived from
glyceraldehyde. A careful NMR and MS studies conducted recently revealed that
these carbonates are actually tetracarbonates derived from the dimeric structure
of glyceraldehyde,’ The two tetracarbonates prepared (I and II) were pyrolyzed
at 350°C (30 sec.}. Both released about 65% of the corresponding phenol. En-
couraged by these results, we also prepared the corresponding tetracarbonate of
menthol. The unique structure of the glyceraldehyde dimer prompted us also to
extend our research to its esters. Thus, the tetra 3-methylyaleroy! derivative
(IIT} was prepared by a routine acylation procedure.?

Oe a |

0. vr *

of

Ph
0-(2-methoxy-4-methypheny1)
thy butyl

UT Re

In the past we have made several attempts to develop a release system for
J,2-diketones such as biacety. Our recent success in releasing ketones via
Sugar-based 8-ketoesters* led us to explore the corresponding sugar-based Asy-
diketoesters. The reaction of the enolate anion of suitably protected 3-0-
acetylglucose with pyruvyl chloride gave only a very low yield of the desired
diketoester. We concluded that this route which is very useful for the preparation
of B-ketoesters, is not practical in the case of the. B,y-diketoesters.? We have
begun to study an alternative release system for 1,2-diketones, namely B-hydroxy-y~
ketoesters. Thus, the above enolate anion was reacted with biacety) to give a
mixture of two compounds one of which was the desired hydroxyketoester.?

ee a

In collaboration with N. Etaolf and 0. Magin we have developed a procedure
that enables us to detect sucrose tetraesters in crude Oriental tobacco extracts
without any prior purification.? We are now exploring the possibility of developing
a procedure ta quantitate these esters amounts in Oriental tobacco.?

ee

SZOTZL.Te00r
