CELLULAR AND SUBCELLULAR LOCALIZATION OF 3H NICOTINE AND ITS METABOLITES
BY AUTORADIOGRAPHY: HISTOCHEMICAL AND PHARMACOLOGICAL CHARACTERIZATION OF
UPTAKE SITES IN NEURAL AND ENDOCRINE TISSUES

Extensive information exists on the chemical characteristics of nicotine, its
metabolism in mammalian species, and the functional effects ‘of that compound
or its metabolites. Also, considerable progress has been made in regard to
characterizing the time-dependent pattern of uptake, distribution and clearance
of nicotine and its metabolites in various organ systems or tissues. Several
papers, for example, document the rapid uptake and accumulation of nicotine
(within 10-15 mia.) tn lung, brain, autonomic ganglia, adrenal medulla, other
endocrine organs, kidney, liver and other tissues; this is followed by a rapid
decrease in overall] concentrations in wost organs, with the exception of a few
nicotine metabolizing or excretory tissues such as kidney, liver or stomach
mucosa where further transient increases or somewhat slower clearance occur.
Efforts have been made to utilize infornetion on the time course end pattern
of distribution and metaboTism of nicotine in the elucidation of mechanfsns of
action underlying {ts functional effects, including toxic actions. Only very
Vinited information, however, has been generated on the cellular or subceTiwlar
distribution of nicotine or tts metabolites in various tissues or on relation-
ships between the distributions of those compounds and endogenous substances
(e.g., neurotransmitters or hormones) that are Vikely important in mediating
relevant functtonel effects. The present project is designed to provide such
detatled morphotogtcal information.

One major objective of our initia? study, to be conducted during the first
year of the project, will be to provide 2 thorough mapping of nicotine uptake
sites in neural and endocrine tissue. In addition, 2 less intensive screening
for uptake sites wil] be carried out for certain other representative tissues
thought to be of importance in metabolism or excretion of the compound; thase,
for exampe, include lung, Kidney, liver and stomach mucosa. The mapping of
uptake sites 3s to be accomplished by autoradiographic localization of 2h-
nicotine in the rat, utilizing "thaw-mount” and "dry-mount" autoradiography
techniques developed in our laboratories (see enclosed reprints}. Of special
interest in our initial study wil? be the assessment of whether the drug is
more or Tess ubiquitously distributed within a glven type of tissue, with ne
particular specificity for uptake or binding by different cell types. or
whether some specific “target" ce?ls may show more prolonged retention of the
compound even though overall concentrations in a given organ rapidly decrease.
Also of interest will be whether, over time, shifts occur in the localization
of radioactivity, ¢.g.. from one subcellular site to another, possibly reflect’
ing the production and differential distribution of various metabolites of
nicotine. Such detailed localization data should be of constderable value in
view of past autoradiography studtes having primarily localized nicotine in
relation to whole organs but infrequently in telation to specific cell types
within an organ or subcellular sites. A concise outtine of a sample expert-
mental protocol for the first study is appended,

Starting late inthe first year of the project, once initial results from the
localization of 3H nicotine are available for the rat, additional studies will
be initiated in order to pharmacologically characterize the radioactivity and
uptake sites localized in the first study. Essentially the same basic approach
outlined for the inftial study will be employed, but with fewer doses and times
after injection being used (optimum doses and sacrifice times will be deter-
mined based on the results from the first study). Using the selected “optimum”
dose/time combinations, competition studies wil! be undertaken in which "cold"
(non-radtoactive) nicotine or one or another of its major metabolites, e.9..

50264923

6809PS0907
