Fox, 1

HKES88CCOE

PROGRESS REPORT

10
‘THF. COINCTL FOR TOBACCO RESEARCH U.S.A.

CTR GRIT WO. 915A FINAL PROGRESS REPORT NO. &

R, R, Fox aud BG. Bedigian 1 tay 19m ~

The Jackson Labsratery 50 Jone 1982

 Barbor, Haine 04609
TE

‘Transplacental effects of eittosocompounds in iubred stratus of mice and
rabbits

SCIENTIFIC PROGRESS

1. Elipizotion of debiliteting pathogen treponens coniceli From rabbit
colony” Ski lations tulgestive oF venereal ophischetosie’ (GR) have been
SEecrved in the tobbit colony vince the 1940's. This organiaa {9 perticularly
debiiieacing te sone genetic stocke, nantly the Vi/) strein used in bur attics
Sr tramaplaental caztiuogenesio. de felt Xe ensential to eliniaate this
Geguaiaa frou the colony doving carly steges of ont studies om the cumlative
Sekey-over effects of BMV quer‘sevecsl generations. "A project var indertaten,
SEeerore; Hippocted primarily Hy ther funds, to evaluate the role of vertical
Eeaasmlesion in the epizanticlogy of VSR aad Co Provide s ratfonel basfa for a
progeae of Ireadication of tis disesse Cron the entize faBhit cology store
thetchinination vos considered cost effective for the colony and all associa
ted research projects; Previous Leestaents had minisized the clinical manifest=
aticas in infected anisale but had not eliminated the orgenine. from the colony
Evaluation of tceatecnt ‘epinens revesled that thsee aubeutoneaus dajections

BI Foday Tntectalo of 42,000 10 of a mixture of bensathine peniesllin 6 aud
procaine penicillin 6 veve effective both clinically and serologically. The
Eneive colonyy including neeborne, w#0. subsequently effectively. terated
Foltov-op to date has revealed no, cecurvence o¢ any lesions (1-3, Cunt itfex
Beaoee and Fox, Lab Animal Set. 10B13,b,c)-

2, The carcinogenic effects in inbred rabbits chronlcally teested with
N-pitecoediethslaniee TIN), The envivonsentel carcinogen W-aitroutdietbylantne
Fos Bese found to be carcinogenic in 18 aniaal species (4). This tucludes two
Teports where DEN wos gives erally in the deisking water to vandoa bred rabbits
Grd. fetascatic bepttocirelnoass vere cbserved folloving one year of treatment
GJ. Adeoson (Dy working with priartes, observed that Liver tumors induced
Sy inceoperitoneal sdninistretion oF DEN'had a greater fcequency of netasta
than did’ thove induced with the come coapound by an oral route. The priaates
ore treated every 2 seeka and vere given gradually iucreaping dosages. from 10
par ig to e uaximmm of WO ay per tg by the tiae they vere 3 wonths of age.
Stheanl ae aly (2), using o chronic DEN feginen in chickens and cats, obacrved
deerly a 50% tumoc’frequeaty in a Little less than 2 years. Gor previous
fearles revrated an extrene liver toxicity im rabbite given an acute dose of
DEN. OF" 1d weenliog rabbits treated iutraperitoneally with one injection of

