Neuronal Development
nce

Motor neurons, and the other cell types of the central nervous system, arise from the
neuroepithelium through 2 process that is regulated both spatially and temporally. Inductive signals and
modifiers, provided by adjacent tissues, pattern the neuroepithelium along the antcriorposterior and
dorsoventral axes. These signals progressively restrict the developmental potential of the progenitor
cll,

Within the spinal cord, motor neurons are the first major class of neurons to be born, Shorily
after their birth, motor neurons settle to specific positions within the spinal cord. Motor neurons that
innervate axial muscles form a yentro-medially located column of motor neurons (medial motor column
(MMC), while those that innervate limb muscles form a ventro-laterally positioned column of motor
‘neurons al the cervical and lumbar levels (lateral motor column (LMC)}. Each of these columns is
subdivided into a medial and lateral division (MMCm, MMIC!, LM(Cm, and LMC1), based upon the
dorsal or ventral origin of the target muscle. Each of these major motor columns consists of multiple
clusters of motor neurons. ‘These pools of motor neurons represent the neurons thal innervate
individval target muscles.

‘Motor fanction requires the establishment of accurate connections between motor neurons and
their target muscles. Although the axons of all motor neurons exit together from the spinal card, they
then deviate from each other depending upon the position of their target muscles. Recent studies
suggest thatthe initial axonal trajectories may be specified by members of the LIM homeobox
wanseriprion factor family. These genes are expressed before selection of the axonal pathway occurs,
and the different major motor column subsets express distinct combinations of these proteins.
‘Additional genes may function in the selection of the subsequent palhway choiees required to reach
individual target emuscles.

We have identified a winged helix (WH) transcription factor, thymocyte winged helix (TW),
that displays a changing pattern of expression in the central nervous system, Several WH family
members have been found to serve essential functions during neural development. TWH is initially
widely expressed in the neuroepithelium. By mid gestation, TWH cxpression is restricted to
subregions of the brain and spinal cord. In order to determine the role of TWH in spinal cord
development, we examined the expression of TWH within the spinal cord in mice with a targeted lacZ
transgene driven by the TWH promoter. The expression of the lacZ gene marks a population of motor
neurons and ventcal interncurons nomually expressing TWH which we refer to as TWH-active promoter
(TAP) neurons. TAP motor neurons comprise distinct subsets of motor neurons of both the medial and
lateral motor columns. ‘These subsets are restricted to specific A-P levels, suggesting that they may
represent particular motor neuron pools. We find that TWH is essential for normal motor function, as
TWH(+-} mutant mice have motor weakness. The TWH(~/-) mutation affected the size of the spinal
cord TAP neuronal populations, as well as at least one non-TAP neuronal population. Our studies.
suggest that TWH plays a critical role during the early differentiation of the spinal cord neural
progenitor cell.

Broad Goals and Specific Aims

‘Our overall goal is to understand the molecular mechanisms regulating motor neuron
development. Because TWH is a member of a transcription factor family, we postulate that TWH.
regulates the expression of gencs necessary for regulating the generation and/or function of motor
neurons. Our future studies are directed towards understanding the essential developmental function of
TWH. As TWH expression is found in both the neural progenitor cell and in differentiated neurons,
TWH may serve different roles at different times, We postulate that
Ja the neural progenitor cell,
1. TWH mediates the response of the neurat progenitor cell to external cues

‘We will compare the dorsoventral expression pattern of ofher neural tube markers to TWH, in
both the TWHC/-) hetorozygote and TWH(/-) mnutant, to determine if the expression of olher genes
has been altered by the mutation. These studies may identify candidate genes that regulate TWEL
expression, or are regulated by TWH.

Jn the motor neuron, we postulate that:
2, TWH expression defines specific pools of motor neurons

The distribution pattem of TWH-cxpressing motor neurons resembles that described for motor
neuron pools, We will determine if TWH is a motor neuron pool marker hy cettograde labeling studies

50729058.
