PROJECT NUMBER: 1756 DATE: August 1, 1983

PROJECT TITLE: Analytical Sensory Correlations
PROJECT LEADER: B. W. Good

PERIOD COVERED: July, 1983

1

IL.

It.

Tobacco Aroma (B. Good, F. Hsu, L. Sunn}

A. Of the 57 components collected, 49 has been assigned retention indices
on a 08-5 column, Data on these 57 have been entered into SPEC (a BASIS
data base). An additional 30 components known to be tobacco yolatiles
have been Ordered. Diane Lilly is also using SPEC to enter components
known to be in tobacco or smoke. She has entered ~225 additional
compounds to SPEC.

B, The work on identification of constituents in tobacco steam distillation
1s continuing. Some 55 compounds are tentatively identified to date.
Most major peaks pravide clear spectra. For minor peaks, more concentrated
extracts are needed to get better quality spectra.

C. A program was written to permit data entry for the current MDS study of
flavors from a graphics tablet. The study is being performed by Product
Evaluation Division for Chemical Research. Two of us (M. Jeltema and
B. Good) participated in the sensory evaluation of the flavors.

Organic Gas Phase (T. Crews)

To avoid contamination of the OGP with the smoking machine's syringe,
solenoid and transfer lines, the smoking arrangement was modified such that
a composite profile could be obtained from 4 puffs from one cigarette,
positioned immediately (within 10 cm) before the sample loop. A 3354 method
will perform the sample loop and cryogenic cooling control.

Sidestream Smoke (M. Jeltema)

Analysis of full flavor, light, slim and menthol cigarettes, as requested
by B. Demian, was completed, Analysis included AOV of all cigarette classes
along with MDS analysis of 7 full flavor cigarettes.

MDS analysis produced a map of the cigarettes, however descriptor factor
scores showed no good relationship with the MDS dimensions. This could be due
to rating too many descriptors at one time. The reproducibility of the NDS
map will be investigated.

AOY of the groups showed as usual low rating on all descriptors. All
cigarettes within a group were fairly similar, however several significant
differences were noted.

It was noticed that the ratings given the full flavor cigarettes were
different from previous ratings particularly for Mariboro. B. Demain feels
this is probably due to storage of cigarettes under different humidity conditions.

BSLGLEESOS
