Aortic collagenase activity as affected by
laparotomy, cecal resection, aortic
mobilization, and aortotomy in rats

Jon R. Coben, M.D., Malcolm ©. Pervy, M.D., Robert Hariri, M.S., Jack Holt, MD.,

ang Oscar Alvares, Ph.D., New York, N.Y.

[Recent biochemical evidence that aneueysm formation may be related bo higher accvated

collagenase levels within aneurysmal aoztic walls
tomatic aneurysm cuptare

reports of asymp

‘fcr laparotomy has fed t» speculation that operative traania

unrelated to dizect acwtie injury may increase the chance of aneurysm rupture by inducing
collagenase activation within the aortic wal. The purpose of this study was to determine
Gihecher aortic eallageasne cam be activated by distant operative teauma and the kinetics of

activation after injury. Ninety
laparotomy alone; group

‘4—aororomy and copair.
and 1,2, 3,4 and § days
for collagenase activity by

‘Animals within cach gt

‘2—cecal resection; group 3—aortic mobilizations

as were divided into four groups: group 1—

and group
oup were sacrificed 1, 3, and 6 hours

“afer aurgecy. The abdominal anrtas were removed and assayed
incubation with and digestion of teiium-labeled collagen. Cal-

fagenase activity war vigmificandy elevated up to 6 hours after direct aortic injury

(0.05) and

the controls. These data suggest that collagenase a

ecreased to normal levels withia 2 days. Laparotomy,
‘and zortic mobilization had ne significant effect on aortic

colon resection,
collagenase activity compared to

ctivity isa Local phenomenon celated to

‘wound healing at the site ofinidal injury. Operative trauma without dicect aortic iojury

bad no effec on aortic coagenase activity. (J Va

“The pathogenesis and etiology of the develop
ment of abdominal aortic aneurysms (SAAS) 25 OP-
posed r0 occlusive atheroscleroti discase of the dis-
tal aorta has long remained an enigma. A number of
variables have becn implicated in the development
and subsequent ruprure of AAAs—-inchiding physi-
cal forces, hemodynamic changes, and eecently en-
zymatic akerations of lysyl oxidase! and colle:
(geoase.* Experimensal evidence indicates a decrease
in collagen and elastin in aneuryem walls as com
pared 10 atherosclerotic aortas? and collagenase ac-
tivity in AAAs but noc in the atherosclerotic aortas *
In addition, one clinical report cites. 10 patients
with previously asymptomatic AAAS thar ruptured
within 36 days after laparotomy.! On the basis of
this report and the enzymatic alecrations cited above,
ithas been suggotted that aneuryso formation may
bbe related to a genetic increase in arterial collagenase
activity and chat laparotomy may! promote a gen
eralized increase in all organ collagenase activity
{inclading the aorta) and thereby promote connec-

From the Deparment of Surgery, The New York Mospital=
‘Comall Medical Cenc.

‘Reprint requens Malcolm Perr,
“Fre New York Hospital Carcel Medical Cenc,
Sta Neor Fork, NY LOD2L

M0. Deparone of Set,
eos

362

50285711

Se SURG 1984; 1:862-5.)

tive tissue breakdown, which results in earlier rup-
ture of an asymptomatic AAA. Although there is 20
capedimental evidence to support this policy, the
‘dinfeat implication bas been thar AAAs be repaiced
expeditiously after the original procedure because of
fan increased chance of rupture.‘ The purpose of this
seudy was to determine whether aortic collagenase
could be activated by distant operative trauma and
to study the kinetics of aceivation after distant and
local injury.

MATERIAL AND METHODS

Ninety-six Sprague-Dawley rats weighing be-
tween 200 and 300 gm were assigned 10 one of four
groups, Animals were anesthetized with 0.18 mg of
phenobabical (0.2 cc) and 0.04 mg of atropine (0.25
{&) dilated ro 1 ml with saline solution via ineraperi
toneal injection. The animal was then weighed and
the abdomen shaved. Ir was then prepared with pori+
done-iodincand incised inthe midline (esaetly Sem)
Alier the proceduce, the abdominal wall was elased
swith 2 running 3-0 silk suture and the skin closed
swith another running 3-0 sik suture. A subcurancous
injection of 3 ml of saline solution was given to all
animals for volume repletion.

‘Animals in group 1 underwent laparotomy
alone 28 described above. Animals in group 2 bad

