Sis oN Allbe on nercrese inen ds isenbeam eh

ARTHUR D. LITTLE, INC, (ECI-SHP-74~105)

TITLE: Sfoassay of the Cytotoxocity of Cigarette Smoke and of Its Effects
on ciitary Function: Experimental Hodel for the Study of Pulmonary
Neoplasia

CONTRACTOR'S PROJECT DIRECTOR: Dr. Sam P. Battista
NCI PROJECT COORDINATOR: Dr. Thomas B. Owen
ECT PROJECT MONITOR: Mr. William Metscher

GBJECTIVE(S) AND METHODOLOGY: Task I. To develop an in vivo, short term animal
Fodal for bioassay of the carcinogenic properties of cigarette smoke Teekay,
To develop an inexpensive continuous smoking machine. fask III. to conduct
oxperinents to determine nore sensitive indicators for inhalation bioassays.

FINDINGS: Cytotoxfcity Bioassay. A report of effects of snoke on cilfa and
KB tumor cel] culture obtained from NCI series 4 experimental cigarettes was
Completed and submitted to Eaviro Control, Inc. In vivo bieassay model s Tn
dogs multiple doses of snioke, smoke condensate with and ivfthout dimethyl benz—
anthracene as a primer,or two known carcinogens, N-methyl -Nt-nitro-N-netrosas
guanidine and 3 methylcholanthrene, were applied directly to the bronchus via
bronchial catheters and/or bronchoscope for periods ranging between several.
months and three years. Al] aninals have now been necropsied and lungs,
Pracessed for histopathologic evaluation.

studies have been conducted to determine the effects of cigarette smoke on Tung
function as a means to developing more sensitive indicators for inhalation
bioassays. Swimming endurance was selected a$ the method of producing maxinun
Physical performance {a rats before and after smoking and before and after
adinistration af bronchoconstrictors histamine and methacholine ,used as a
tool to increase the response to cigarette smoke. Rats receiving iy. doses
of Freund's adjuvant to produce granulamatous lung Tesfons were used as
positive controls. Results, although preliminary,show that endurance is
Teduced in adjuvant-treated rats as compared to contrats and that the response
to histamine is more reliable than to methacholine. “The results with
Cigarette smoke were not definitive due to a high degree of variability in
the data; the data, however, do suggest that endurance may be decreased as

a result of smoke exposure,

SIGNIFICANCE FOR SHP: Results of these studtes will provide methodology and
data to afd in assessing less hazardous cigarettes.

OTTTP9Z00T

!

A$
