NICOTINE ANALYSIS IN SIDESTREAM SMOKE Varston 10.11.98 15:20
DRAFT

uantification of nici f.

Norns and definitions

Sidestream smoke is usually defined as af the amoke sliced by a ciceretie while itis emoked thst dows not
‘ext through the mouithend [1]. This defiaiten would exchide the material that right exit lkrough the mouth-
fond between pus, and thus makes It possibie to emplay Iny commonly used Smoking machines for 2
Setermination.

“The condiions under which a cigaralte in smoked have a significant influance on iin deliveries in baih
mainstream and sklastream emoke. In order to assure that the results of analylcal determinations obtained
in diferent labevatoriea are comparable, standard methods have been developed for tha Investigation of
mainstream smoke ylelde. At prasent ine most used onae ore ine closely reiaiad FTC and ISD methods, 1a
the case of sidesiream aincke, for which intorest has been relatively recent ard so ler mainly at @ research
level, no standard method nas been dafined to date,

A aroup of laboratories within a CORESTA task foros did cary oul, however, a collective and systematic
investigation aiming al optimizing the procadures for tha analysie of diferent components in cigarette
sidestream smoke. Tha essence of the conclusions of thls cooperative work wes reported In [k] 01 1990.
‘Quite rocenty, Health Canada proposed the draft nf a compendium of analytical test protocols, document
which ia at the publle examination stage, Propared under contract by Labslat Incorporated (Kitchener
‘Onlario, Canada N2C 113), this document doals In particular with the determination of nfcotine in sidestrear
Smoke." Tha proposed mnethods are referenced in tro Health Protection Branch's Informetion Letier No 819,
Proposed Tobacco (Reporting) Regulations. Al present, however, nane of Wess methods has been
validated through sullabfe Inter-laboratory tests, nor have they bean accopted as a standard.

“Thera is @ general agreement, however, on a framework for performing sidestream smoke determinations. A
frst point i relating to standardizing a certain number of steps. An analytics} procedure for the quanfifeation,
of the sldastrearn amoke yield of 3 component involves Wie sams succession of stops as in the case of the
analysis of mainstream amoka. In establishing procedures lor Ihe quantiicalion of sidestraam smoke
‘components, & Is commonly accepted that whenevor a procedure la common to both determinations, the
noms apelicablo when dealing wih malnetresm smoke should be applied e9 wall to the determinations
Performed on sideatroam. This covers, in parficular, the selection of a representative sample, the
‘equilibration conditions far the cigarettes, tha environmental concitians in the laboratory, the lighting of the
‘lgerattes, the selection of ine smoking paramalers and ie quality asaurance obtained fram tho regular
‘smoking of a aurtable monitor cigarette. IE wil also in some instances cover Uie sampling of the enalyte, ts
‘quantification and a caleulalion procedure for the raporing,

Conversely, this also means that any aldestrearn roault wil ba dapendant on the set of norms that were
chosen as the sianderd method for mainstream smaka generation.

‘Specificity of sidastream smoke analvsis

‘There fs specificity inherent fo tha snalyals of clgaratte sidestream smoke, It Is esseriialy associated wih
Ihe alfficuties encountered for te sampling. Sampling from sidestream smoke i In affect a two-step
process: One fret noeds to colect al the smoke belng generated from tho apace surreunding the burning
Cigarette. The componant undar investigation must then be channeled to a sullabio trapping system where it
is collected for quanttalive analysis. When comparing with mainstream smoke analysia, this brings about
‘yea addition igoues. Tho first one Ts the design of the trapping system that wil Hkely havo to handle =
highar and warmer flow Ihan when sampling mainstream omoke. Tha second, avan mare challanging one,
resides In performing en efficient and non-disturbing capture of tha smoke,

‘Over the years, a number of devices have een proposed to collect sdestream smoke, and heir use was

discussed in several reviews (2, 3, 4], which are examined balow. The cumerous approaches that are found

In the therature reflectin part iho diforing alms and priortiea of the authors.

“Two key rulea, however, are usually formulated when asseesing Oe performance of an experimantat setup

{oe tha optimization of its operstion,

= Tho frst e thal the presence of ihe colecon apparatus should not aller the smoking of the cigarette,
‘and In paitioulae should nol change malnstream yields or pul count (9, er).

‘+ The second fa inal the collection should be complete snd thet the sidestream smeke should not be
allawad to change, before Ihe kvestigetad component & rapped. Allerations in smoke campasiton
‘could ba due to the Incroased tamperaiura next lo the It cigarette, 0 interaction with ine appacatus wails,
‘could result from reactions within the sraoko,

‘in practice, atricly obeying thesa rules praves to be @ very demanding challenge. This makes any

sidesteam smoke determination more alffcuk and less precise than ils mainstream counterpart. also

implies thal at least as many cigarettes as for the corresponding mainsiream determinetion should be

Nicotine-sidestream-totel.doc Page tof 11 2502072979

i
}

mm
i

