CHARGE NUMBER: 6904

PROVECT TITLE: BIOLOGICAL METHOOS DEVELOPHENT AND UTILIZATION
PERIOD COVERED: ocTOBER 1 + 31, 1985

PROJECT LEADER: MERE PENN

DATE OF REPORT: NOVEMBER 4, 1986

WRITTEN B 8. 0. DAVIES

1. ¥29 INHIBITION OF METABOLIC COOPERATION (iC) ASSAY

ucted in an effort to reinstitute the IMG
assay using 2 Tower v1 As is usual, the new cell cultures wer
evaluated to determi ficiency’ and response to positive

Analyses of the results fndt-
cated 1 caspeneeegsay was functioning formally and routine testing has begun
a.

The INC activity of Aydroquinone (HQ) was evaluated [2] using & concentra.
tion Tange of 10.05 40.3.0 ug/ml. As with three previous experiments Involy ing
Hd, toxicity was indicated at the higher HQ concentrations. Preliminary
ataiyets of tha data indicates that dose-related activity existed for te lower
aaa ttattons, Statistical avaluations are in progress to determine th
Specific activity of HQ and will be reported next month.

11. $0$ CHROMOTEST

A previous $05 Chronotest experiment performed inchouse (9) using freshly
anoked 5¢ fron six modal cigarettes Indleated that none of the CSCS wer
sree hither ‘with or w(thout metabolic activation ($9). Mowavers these
sctives itrequestfonable due to the untnown efficacy of the lyopntltzed (+) $9
system suppliad with the kit.

In onder to test abether the Tack of activity wag due to the hyophilized
59 ort as actually a reel observation, the activity of freshly-snnked 222 0S
was tested using both the lyophilized $9 ‘and the frozen $9 preparation which 1s
Mas testy used in-house with S/H assays [4]. Equivalent protein concentrations
rauetnets ilth the two SB systems, CSC concentrations used were conparable te
were Oates ith the previous experiaent. The preliminary results indlcated
those used there appesrs to be no cSt activity using the Tyophilized $9, defl-
tide activity wes detected whan using our standard frozen S® preparation,

Toxicity was evaluated by measuring the enzymatic activity of alkaline
phosphatase (produced by the bacteria) which ts not under the contre} of the

Mtg functions’ the results indicated no toxicity existed when using the froze
SS: out possible toxicity existed with the Tyopnilized $9 at the higher ese,
concentrations.

£9067T6Z0Z
