ae * [7 99._& NEW CHROMATOGRAPHIC METHOD FOR PREPARATIVE
FRACTIONATION OF CIGARETTE SMOKE CONDENSATE FOR
A + ¢{ 9:00. GroLOGiCAL EXPERIMENTS. H.-J. KUniseh, Fonchungsinsiut
: dor Cipwetteninduste 0.V., Hanoburg 54, Gazetenkamp 38, West |”
Germany :
‘A new sepuration technique’ for preparative production of claret sake con:
densate fractions bs deseribed employing the methods of geldistibution
‘heamatography and get-permeztion chromatography. A altranethane faction Vy
Lp | obuines by Hqulesrauid diswibuuion, was separated with a biphasic pair of
solvems fsadenary phase: 85% methanol, mobile phase: hexane) into 572% lew
polar (hexane phase Vil) and 423% polar (methanol phase) substancrs. The
henane phase VIC free of cizotine alkaloids, containing the polycyeie aromatic
hydrocarbons, was subsequently separated Into Iractions of defined molecue size
according to tel-ehromatographie:principies, The separa system with the
. ombination polysiyteneyel-Glo-BeadeSX Bftetrbydraturan was. thoroughly
investigated with cegud to separation efficiency, stability In the elation volume,
fading capacity, and teproduelbility. In comparing the elution volumes of
‘compounds ofthe sare malecute sxe but of aiferent polarity, it could be proved :
tat moleculat sieving leparation effects are of siguficant Infuence, while ab -
saaptions were not observed. After calibrating tha columa with dibenf2p}pyrene
{and anthracene the purified hexane feacion VII was separcted Into three fi
ons, One of these fractans weighed 0.69% of the whole condsasite and con-
{ained all 347 ring polycyclic aromatic Nydeoearbons.

rg Evaluated by A. M. Palmer

Fraction V was separated by gel distribution chromatography

using a Sephadex gel swollen with 85% methanol as stationary

phase and hexane as mobile phase, This was described as a

true liquid-liquid partition separation. The hexane, phase :
VII, which was free of nicotine, phenols, etc., was then ‘
fractionated.

These separations were said to be much cleaner than can be
obtained by liquid partition in separatory funnels,

The GPC step was examined extensively using radioactive
labeled compounds to check recoveries, column loading
capacity, etc.

GPC separations of smoke condensate are being done at PM

using colums capable of giving better separation than that
used by the author.

t

SZESTSTOOT

