TR GRANT No. CIR 2121 Ri Progress Report No. 1
Period covered: fram 7/1/87 to 11/30/88
Nane of Investigator: Gabriel C. Godman

Title of Original Grant: Cytoskeletal modulation of gene
expression ard surface function.

Delineation of how the menbrane-associated cytoskeleton participates in
those central functions of the endothelial cell occurring or initiated at
the cell surtace (e.g. selective permeability/barrier, and
haemastasis/coagulation), by studying the action of defined perturbants has
been a primary foous of our research, together with an examination of the
effect of such controlled perturbations on gene expression and biosynthesis
of cytoskeletal protein.

‘hese investigations were conducted using endothelial cells (EC) in
culture. Mindful of the differences in responsivity of endothelial cells
originating fron different vascular beds, from different species, and in
proliferative, subconfluent, motile and fully differentiated states, we have
made efforts to cultivate human, bovine, and rodent BC of macrovascular
(numan and bovine arterial) microvascular (human, rodent. adipose tissue) and
venous (hutan umbilical vein) origin. Conditions (media and matrices) to
achieve good proliferation, and then approximation to the fully
differentiated state, of histictypic monolayers, have been explored along
Lines indicated in our original proposal.

2, Endothe?ial cell (EC) responses to agents that perturb the
cytoskeleton directly.

A, Cytochalasin (C0) acts directly and reversibly by scission and
shortening of F actin and by preventing polymerization at the barbed end; it
has no other known primary effect in the cell.

a. At concentrations of CD >0.5uM, dose-dependent. EC retraction
ocourred conconitant with disassembly and reorganization of the entire
actin-based cytoskeleton into contracted aggregates (in which actin ~
nyosin, tropomyosin, a actinin, sometimes vinculin were colocalized) vhich
remained or became Closely linked to inner face of plasma membrane as caps,
subsequently sequestered by fused plasmlenmal vesicles. Sequestrae vere
fastened to the menbrane of the BC body by new adherense self~junctions;
most preformed cell-cell junctions were retained until retraction became
extrene. Although monolayers of such cells were grossly permeable, there
was no change in such other EC surface functions, as activity of
angiotensin converting enzyne (ACE), 5’ucleotidase, coagulant activity, or
fluid phase endocytosis. Cell surface receptors for lectin, and the
intrinsic Bc nenbrane-protein thronbonodulin were entrained with the
reorganized actin cytoskeleton and aggregated (capped) overlying membrane-

