(eel eentlll onal eel eae

ee el

PROJECT NUMBER: 1333
PROJECT TITLE: Semivorks Process Control

PROJECT LEADER:
PERIOD COVERED

AL

D. A. Phan
January, 1988

Qbjective: Evaluate and revise the process control and data acquisition
system te improve processing performance and production quality.

Results:

Bright Top Casing Flavor System Upgrade (Oliver) ~ Work is underway to
design the control system for a second bright top casing flavor tank.
The design will allow both flavor systems at the bright casing
cylinder to function simultaneously to accomodate unusual high
application flow rate.

Ads _Drver Control Tmprovenente (Sims) - Provox control

modifications have been made to allow: 1) automatic coil pressure
venting before dryer startup to insure pressure ramping
consistency, and 2) control of steam te dryer coils either by
pressure or flow.

BG Dryer Study (liver) - Additional averaging temperature sensors
have been installed and successfully checked out to measure

air temperature after tobacco bed ingide the dryer. This work is
Performed to support the project being conducted by the Semiworks
Process Development Group to evaluate the performance of the P&S dryer.

Tobacco Lot Analysis (Phan/Sims) - A new contzol panel for TLA dryer
and conditioner has been redesigned and built for improved
operational performance and maintenance. This work is performed to
support the installation phase of the TZA project being conducted by
PM Engineering at the QA Audit facility.

Semivorks Primary Computer Upgrade (Oliver/Sims) - Initial software

eonfigurarion for the HP backup computer has bean generated and
Successfully checked out. The new configuration allows the backup
computer access the Pravox database without communicating with the heat
computer. A status report for this project, including plans and
schedule, has been issued. The project is planned to be completed by
June 1988.

A purchase order has been issued for required Fisher hardware interface
and process control software package for a PC-based computer.

Blans: Continue the work on the Adt dryer process control improvement
and primary computer upgrade projects. Complete the design of a second
bright top casing flavor control aystem, Provide a database for
make/pack 0A defect results and computerize the make/pack QA monthly
report. Order an THPS pack-seal instrument to establisn baseline
Performance of ail packers in Semiworks. Continue providing electrical
Plant engineering support for the Semivorks and conduct routine QR
functions.

27

O@8LTT1I00z
