CHARGE NUMBER: 1620

PROGRAM TITLE: ELECTROPHYSIOLOGICAL STUDIES
PERIOD COVERED: JULY 1 - 31, 1986

PROJECT LEADER: F. P, GULLOTTA

DATE OF REPORT: AUGUST 1, 1985

WRITTEN. BY: C. S. HAYES

1, EVENT-RELATED POTENTIALS 10 CHEMICAL STIMULI

A, Nasal Event-Related Potentials (NERPs): Difference
Testing Employing Cognitive ERPs

A flavor discrimination experiment utilizing the cognitive ERP para-
dign was attempted for the first time since installation of the new olfac-
tometer /Cadwell computer system. Vartous "bugs" were observed in the computer
database for waveform storage and reteieval. Therefore, flavor difference
testing will be delayed until the appropriate modifications can be made, Once
testing resumes, the initial compounds to be tested are acetylpyrazine, 2-
methoxy-3-methyTpyrazine and 2,5-dimethylpyrazine. These compounds have been
selected in order to compare the electrophysiological data with data obtained
in behavioral studies such as odor profiling, multidimensional scaling (MOS)
and cross-adaptation experiments,!

B. Nasal _Event-Related Potentials (NERPs): Mapping Studies

Cortical mapping experiments employing event-related potentials
(ERPs) to nasally presented stimuli have been initiated in order to investigate
the relative contributions of the olfactory and trigeminal nerves to flavor
characteristics. These experiments allow, for the first time, NERPs to be
recorded from 16 scalp electrode sites simultaneously, Compounds which vary in
their purported olfactory/trigeminal contributions to the sense of smell are
currently being tested, These compounds are: (1) vanillin {"pure" olfactory
stimulant); (2} COz (pure trigeminal stimulant); and (3) the mixture of
yaniilin and Coz {mixed olfactory and trigeminal stimulant). Tt is believed
that by determining where in ‘the brain these compounds, and other “similar
compounds, are producing their maximal effects, insight can be gained about
olfactory/trigeminal characteristics in flavorants.

To date, preliminary data from two subjects indicate that vanillin
Produces responses that are maximal contralateral to the nostril being stim-
lated; whereas, maximal responses to C02 appear to be more bilaterally
symmetrical, Data with respect to the mixture of vanillin and CO; remain to be
interpreted:

2001116261
