CHARGE RUMBER: 4009

PROJECT TITLE: Smoke Studies
PROJECT LEADER: B, Goodman
PERIOD COVERED: December, 1980

iL HUMAN. SMOKER SIMULATOR

A

Barclay Studies

85 mm Barclay, Merit, and Cambridge cigarettes modified to
zero dilution were smoked on the Simulator at two different flow
rates; 1050 and 2100 cc/min., giving puff volumes of 35 and 70 ce
respectively. The objective was to determine the particulate
residue in the filter and the mainstream delivery for efficiency
calculations. The cigarette filters and Cambridge smoking pads
were sent to CI for tar, nicotine and water determfnattons.

Product Studies

A spectal report titled "Evaluation of Selected 3 mg Candidates
by the Seoker Response Procedure” was written. Six 3 ag models
that had been rated as acceptable in POL tests of Merit Ultra Lights
candidates were selected for the study along with four controls
and a Merit 85, The dmg ?.H, clgarettesrepresented two filter
systems, three tobacco blends and six different flavor systems.
All 3 ag cigarettes had simflar physical properties and were snoked
alike by the panelists. Wo significant dffferences in per puff
deliveries were seen, The Merit 85 with higher RTD and lower
dilutfon than the 3 mg cigarettes was smoked with significantly
lower puff volumes and produced higher per puff deliveries.

The study illustrates two potnts: (1) physical properties
of the cigarette; primarily RTO and dilution, have a large influence
on smokers’ profiles and subsequent cfgarette dettvertes, (2) aiffer-
ent but acceptable blends and flavors do not influence how a smoker
smokes a cigarette.

TI. WRAPPER MODIFICATIONS:

AL

Salt Additives

Preliminary resuits have been obtained for TPM delivery on
cigarettes with vartous catfon/anton ratios of sodium citrate
applied to the wrapper. TPM and puff count decline with increasing
sodium citrate level as expected. A slight decrease fn TPH per
puff was noted for decreasing levels of sodium to citrate. Gas
phase results are pending. Additions of sodium chloride and potassium
citrate will be made in January.

9S499TzZz202
