VANILLIN

Terminology

In the tobacco industry the term vanillin refers to the
compound 4~hydroxy-3-methoxybenzaldchyde. Vanillin is a white to
yellowish crystalline powder having 2 characteristically strong
Vanilla~like odor and very sweet taste {1). The distinction
between vanillin, a discrete chemical compound and vanilla, the
complex plant extract must be recognized.

Sources

The chief source of natural vanillin is from vanilla plants
grown in Mexico, Madagascar, Java and Tahiti (2). Watural
vanillin has been reported in the essential oil of Java citron-
ella, in benzoin, Peru balsam and clove-bud oil (2). It is also
naturally occurring in tobacco (3,4). Vanillin is produced
synthetically from eugenol derived from clove oil or guaiacol.

It is also made from conigerin, a white crystalline material
obtained from the sapwood of the northern pine (5). But the
synthetic vanillin does not give the full true flavor of vanilla,
aS a blend of other flavors is present in the natural product
(6).

Ysage
Vanilla is undoubtedly the most used flavoring in the world
(7). The vanilla plant originated in Mexico and was used as a

flavorant by the Aztec Indians as early as the 1400's. By the
1600's, vanilla was widely used in Europe and soon it became a
general habit to flavor chocolate and also tobacco with vanilla
(8), In the 1700's Pierre Lorillard used vanilla bean as a
flavorant in one of his recipes for snuff (29). Today, in the
cigarette industry the compound vanillin, either from vanilla
beans or synthetically produced, is uscd'to achieve this vanilla
flavor.

Biological Data

The acute toxicity of vanillin has been investigated in
several species. The oral LD,, of vanillin, as a 20% propylene
glycol solution, in fasted rat$ has been reported as 1.58 g/kg
with 95% confidence intervals of 1.39 - 1.81 g/kg (9). Animals
lapsed into a coma soon after treatment and death occurred 4
hours to 4 days later. Oral H,9's of 2.0 q/kg and 2.8 g/kg in
rats (strains unspecified) have iso been reported (10), The
mininum lethal dose after oral administration in the rabbit
(strain unspecified) was reported to be 2 g/kg. In fasted guinea
pigs (strain unspecified), the oral LD, of vanillin, as a 20%
Propylene glycol solution, was 1.4 g/kg ’with 95% confidence

2
3
Le
3
8
g
a
9
