e GLE

47 December 1898 -1UWR Page 1
Determination of Nicotine in Mainstream and Sidestream Cigarette Smoke DRAFT

Kathe ner. /byrcle”

Formation of Smoke and Nicotine Transfer

Mainstream Smoke
9
‘The processes goveming smoke formation and nicotine transfer have been studied extensively.

In particular, Beker and his teem investigated at length the temperature and gas flux
distributions Ineide a buring cigerette. The conclusions of this massive research effort were
reviewed in [bat]. A detalled summary of the current underatanding of smoka formation ancl
dynamic evolution Is also available fn [3]. With a focus on the transfer of nicotine into smoke,
these processes can be summarized as folows:

The frtorior-of-thef hested part of @ buming cigarette con be divided into two regions, an
exothermic combustion zone and an endothermic zone immediately dawnatream where
distilation and pyrolysis take place. The high temperature in the combuation zone, reaching 700

to 960°C, carbonizes the tobacco and makes the firecone almost impermeable to air
Consequently, most of the air that is puffed entera the cigarette near the cher line, Oxygen
causes combustion of the carbonized tobacco and the release of heat sustains the whole
buming process. As a result, the heated gases in the heated part of a buming cigarette are
dapleted of oxygen but rich in hydrogen. Very high temperature gradients, and heating rates up

rer t iced during @ puff. rey

to 500*C/second are produced during a putt te haps, a

Tr ep too wf arrgnot 0nd we Staion zonal 2 van of

the char line.’ Since the oxygen concentration is low and nicotine is rather stable towards thermal
wip hha tre a :

processes, ‘limited, The distribution of nicotine inside 2 cigaretie was actually

monsured by Baker et al. (ba4] a8 a function of time during @ puff. These measurements 1g

that the release of nicotine fromm the tobaccoreaches Ite maximum 4 mn behind the peperlerrne,

dlzpzesose

ling pnd about 2 rom from the central axieln @ region brow temperature is typically between

700 and 250°C, The concentration profiled mefcetthe-iniur-of aitrenrthenchanine-roioR afd

PADHIPUBOOS =
‘aime

