DRAFT Piulip Morris USA Confidential

Chemical and Physical Analysis of Tobacco and

Smoke- Project and Resources
K. Shafer A797

Mission:
Develop methods for collecting and analyzing selected tobacco and smoke
components.

Priority will be for methods where real time analysis of fresh smoke will provide
insight into processes occurring as tobacco is converted into smoke in a
cigarette or in @ controlled environment. A coordinating role will also be
established for measurement technology applied to all projects in scope for
Product Technology areas in order to provide appropriate methodology and data
quality.

Understanding aldehyde formation and removal processes. This project builds
upon research already in progress for Beta. First puff, precursors, effects of
inorganic additives on formation, and heating rate studies are all planned as part
f formation research. Both rod filtration and filter contribution to removal will be
studied, with priority on formaldehyde reduction. Gas phase components will be
measured puff by puff and on an intrapuft basis.

Note that the following listing provides for continuity in the allocation of scientists
in 1998 to Product Technology and Beta who were already allocated to this area
of technology for Beta in 1997. Ongoing Beta work, not cited in this document, is
the reason all allocations are needed at 100%, since some time sharing is
already built into this proposal.

‘Senior technical leader for project development and technology coordination,
and for identification of new technology. Continue with K, Shafer 100%
Physical chemist for model development and data evaluation in both formation
and removal mechanism areas. Continue with J. Banyasz 100%

Research analysts (four) to develop methods and apply these to either Beta,
Ggarettes, or appropriate model systems. Techniques include FTIR, laser
ablation. go-ms, and new techniques to be added in 1998 such us fast EGA-
FTIR and methods to analyze gas phase at controlled locations within the
buming cigarette. Four scientists in complimentary assignments continue to be

Doc Code: F230 November 1997

2078582769
