see eeeth sersy wal le bare 61k ten wren cw

Page 1

©

<
ne

ASSESSMENT OF ETS IMPACT ON OFFICE AIR QUALITY. Part 2.

Piadé J.J. and Gerber c.
Philip Morris Europe, 2003 Neuchatel Switzerland.

q
|
|
!
i
|
|

‘SUMMARY

The impact of environmental tobacco smoke {ETS} on indoor air
quality was investigated by quantifying the concentration of si
of ite components in the course of a series of strictly
controlled experiments performed in an office of a modern air
conditioned building.
The desired smoke generation rate was obtained by having i
commercial cigarettes smoked by trained smokers according to ay
prescribed protocol. Both isolated and continuous smoke |
generation patterns were investigated. 1
The concentrations of the selected ETS constituents and their |
ratios are reported, together with background and outdoor levels}
The influence of environmental factors on these ratios and on
wal) deposition 1s also discussed. |
|

INTRODUCTION

Environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) has been singled out by many
authors as an important contributor to indoor air pollution.
Concern has been expressed about the possible health effects of
EYS exposure, and a large body of literature is now available on
this topic. A critical step in this discussion is the assessment
of ETS impact on indoor air quality.
It appears that the main problem in the assessment of exposure to
ETS arises from its very nature: it is a dynamic system, both ;
physically and chemically, which is also affected by the other
environmental factors. Several smoke components have been
measured in indoor environments as markers, indicative of “ETS
concentration”. The most often used components are nicotine,
respirable suepended particles (RSP) and, often in conjunction
with one of the former, carbon monoxide.
The present paper is part of a continuing study investigating BTS
chemistry in real-life situations, but with a strictly defined
amoke generation and investigating a wide array of components.
Our main goalz in this study are: :
~ to determine the validity of the use of markers in assessing |
ETS impact on indoor alr quality, and explore potential H
probleme and limitations. i
~ to ddentity the best approaches in using markers to estimate {
BTS expoaure, |
A first part of this study has already been published {1}.

