CHARGE NUMBER: 6908

PROGRAM TITLE: SMOKE CONDENSATE STUDIES
PERIOD COVERED: JUNE 1 - 30, 1985
PROJECT LEADER: R. D, KINSER

OATE OF REPORT: JULY 5, 1985

WRITTEN BY: W.R. MORGAN

I,  NETROSAMINES

Tt has been previously demonstrated that overspraying burley filler with
ascorbyl palmitate (AP) reduced mainstream TSNA by approximately 20%.! This
result prompted an investigation into other antioxidants which may ylelé
further reductions in TSNA. Tests with tocopheryl acetate (performed in duplt~
cate) and hydrocaffetc acid sprayed on burley tobacco have been completed.?
These results substantiated thase obtained with AP. Recent papers in J, Ag.
Food Chem. and Food Science indicate that compounds having l-propanone and

4-dThydroxyphenyT) moieties are potent antioxidative materials, A series of
these compounds are currently under investigatton.

To test the hypothesis that tobacco leaf lipfds are involved in the forma
tion of nitrosation species, two experimental bright tobaccos, XSDOEVC and
XSDOEVD were analyzed for Filler TSN content. EVC and EVD are assumed to have
different lipid levels (E¥D being lower) due to the absence of leaf trichomes,?
Results showed higher levels of NNN and NAT and reduced NHK in the EVD sample,
‘The signiftcance of these results is currently under {nvestigation,

Examination of the filler TSNA analysis protocol continued.? Samntes of
calfbration standard and burley, 281, and spiked orfental prepared with and
without alumina column chromatography were subjected te 360 nm UW radiation.
Overnignt irradiation of the calibration standard reduced the TSNA content by
96 to 98%. Tobacco samples required longer irradiation times, Samples
prepared with alumina colum chromatograohy took 24 hrs of frradtation whereas
those without alumina chromatography required 36 hours. Reductton in the
tobacco sample TSNA confirmed that the higher NNN and NAT results obtained by
GC/TEA for samples prepared without alumina colum chromatography are from
interfering compounds and not altrosamines. It 15 concluded that the alumina
Colum chromatography 1s a necessary step in the analytical protocol,

Prevtously reported data showed that rod filtration efficlency for TPM and
TSNA are different and that burley exhibits a larger TSA rod filtration
efficiency than bright. Efforts to recover the TSNA filtered by the rod for
burley (8¥Y) have been made.” The experiment was performed dy smoking the
First 18 om of the rod followed by segmenting the remaining rod into 11 em
segments and analyzing for TSNA. NNN was found {n the 4th segment behind the
coal (closest to the filter). MAT was split about 40/60 between the Ist
Segment and the 4th segment and WNK was exclusively in the Ist segment. The
implication of these results are that separate mechanisms of transport, Filtra

E6TOTITONZ

eee ees
