CTR final progress report, Jan. 1, 1988 - Dec. 30, 1990
Grant #2207, Ray C. Pittman

QUANTITATION IN VIVO OF PATHWAYS
INVOLVED IN REVERSE CHOLESTEROL TRANSPORT

Ray C. Pittman

Department of Medicine

Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism
University of California, San Diogo

Abstract:

HDL cholesterol levels correlato inversely with the incidence of coronary artery
disease. If wo are to understand the evident protective effect of HDL, its
physiological role must be understood. {is genorally believed ttiat HDL mediates the
return of cholesterol! from extrahepatic tissues to the liver for excretion or reutilization,
Several pathways may narlicipate in this, but it has not been known what role each
actually plays in vivo. Determination of this has been a central focus of this grant.
Our central hypothesis is that a novel pathway for the direct cellular uptake of HDL
cholesterol esters {CE}, which we term “selective uptake”, plays a role in reverse
cholesterol transport in humans. We tested this in rabbits, which represent an
extreme case in that they express much more actively than humans the major
competing pethway. Using multiple tracors in a kinetic modelling approach, we were
able to demonstrate selective uptake in vivo even in rabbits, indicating that the
pathway likely plays a role in humans, Regardless of the magnitude of the pathway’s
usual expression in humans, it may play @ pratective role which should be amplified.

We have also shown that selective uptake can be perturbed by drug treatment by
@ mechanism independent of effects on cell chalesterol levels, Probucot lowers:
plasma HDL levels. We found, however, tirat mass transport of HDL CE to the liver
was maintained at normal levels by induction of hepatic selective uptake. A parallel
effect of probucol was observed in cultured human hepatoma cells. This effect an
hepatic HDL metabolism may serve as a model for drugs ta reduce atherosclerotic risk,
and as a probe of intracollutar mechanisms involved in selective untake.

This grant has also supported studies of the mechanism of selective uptake. These
have shown that the first step in the nonendocytotic uptake of intact CE involves its
feversibla insertion from HDL into a plasma membrane pool of CE, from which CE are
then internalized to a cytoplasmic destination where they are hydrolyzed.

