sen BYixeron Terecopier TOR} Azan 7 1428S 2024570350" appeseasaaia 2

Eph Ruse Assesmenr’
RE

consents by De. Nort Lippmans
on the BPA‘s BTS Risk Aesouenent

BAR Executive Committes Meeting and Subsequent Press ariefing

entation to the SAB Executive Comitt Dr.
Lippmann ‘gonclusions he expressed at tha close of the
feview panel ngs on the two EPA documents last December. He
rev a the Seience Advisory Board convened to review the draft risk
ment on ETSt

© unanizously agreed with the report's conclusion that E75 jaa
Class Sercinogen and a cause of lung cancer in nonsmoking
adultes

© aid not endorse the Agency's quantitative lung cancer
Analysis, noting that the real number may be higher or Lowery

© recommends a stronger conclusion on the ie
affects in children than EPA originally issued,
original conclusion "too timid"; and

o racomnends EPA address o broader range of cance:
potential health impacts of ETS exposure,
estrioting the anslysia to lung concer:

puring the Executive Committee and the press briefing, Dr. Lippmann
wade numerous qualifying comments.

° ment “had deficiencies,“ he noted,
id be overcome with revisions. The panel
that the agency "make much more of
‘sping the carcinogenicity of ETS.
> Ha saia thot the panel “had some difficulty in applying the

Hiaetines for Carcinogen Risk Assesment, a6 they are

Uventiy formulated." The Executive Committes, reconnended)
removal or further explanation of the language in the draft

renovate atating tbat “if the guidelines for Carcinogen Risk |
S2besament can be used to cast doubt on a finding that \
Meeeiacion of tabaaco eacke by humans causes an increased risk )
of lung cancer, the situation suggests ad to review the

Guidelines," While expressing concern about the Language, the

Qecutive Comittee did not essen troubled by the fact that E75

did not aatiafy s rigorous interpre! ation of the quidelinas.

When Rep. Bliley's staff member asked repeatedly if a Class A
gareinogen designation could be supported if tha guidelines
Sore applied rigorously, Dr. Lippsann avoided a response.

6TT9609202
