EFFECTS OF RICOTINE ON TYR-MIF=1 IN RAT AND HUMAN

Background on MIF-1/Tyr-MIF-1

XIF-1 was named for its historical role in inhibiting the release of
pelanocyte-stinulating hormone (MSH) from the pituitary gland, Although
MSH fe part of the same large precursor molecule containing ACTH and
Brendorphin, there are instances fn which ite release can be dissociated
frow those of ACTH and B~endorphin, Nicotine 4a one of the rare substances
resulting in such o dissociation, decreasing the release of KSH but
stimlating the release of ACTH and P-endorphine (Conte-Devolx et al., Life .
Sciences 28:1067, 1981), The numberal 1 after the abbreviation of MIF

indicates, however, that 1t is only under special circumstances that MIF-1

effects MSH release and is probably not ite physiologic uediator. The

primary action of MIF-1 appears to be on the brain rather than the

pituitary.

MIP-1 is prolyi-leucyl-glycinamide (Pro~Leu-Gly-NH,). It is the » |
C-terminal tripeptide of oxytocin, split from oxytocin by the enzymatic
degradation of a microsonal exopeptidaee. While investigating NIP-1, we |
found that N-terminal Tyr-WIF-1 (Tyr-Pro-Lev-Gly-Mi,) could be detected by -
radioimmunoassay (RIA) in brain tissue of the rat, focluding the higher
cortical centers. The immunoreactivity could not be accounted for by MIF-L
or oxytocin, Although thie was reasonable evidence for the natural
existence of Tyr-MIFel in brain tissue, proof was recently provided by high
performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). In addition, ve have found high |
affinity binding sites for Tyr-MIF-1 so specific that even MIF-1 binds very |
little, ae

The carrier-mediated transport system for Tyr-MIP=1 from brain to
blood also seems to select agaiuet MIF-1, but not Met-enkephalin or
Leu-enkephalin which actively compete, We first described thie system
about 2 year ago, and we continue to characterize it and accumplate
additional evidence for its high specificity.

Tyr-MIF-1 exerts a nuuber of behavioral actions. One of the most
important, ve feel, ts ite antidepressant activity. There are already
reports of e umber of animal models of depression in which MIF-1 exerts
the same actions as the tricyclic antidepressauta, Several favorable
elinieal studies also have been performed with MIF-1 tn mental depression.
In addition, Tyr-MIP-1 facilitates extinction of the passive avoidance
response, It is not cleat whether some of the other effects of Tyr-MIF-L
are related to its antidepressant actions, but we have encouraged the
concept that peptides have multiple actions.

One of the other actions of MIF-I/Tyr-HIFel 19 as an anti-opiate.
Although it does not act like naloxone in some situations (e.g. binding to
delta opiate receptors), it does act 1tke naloxone dn many other cituations
(e.g. tadl-flick test of analgesta, food and water consumption, temperature
regulation). Moreover, a5 mentioned above, Tyr-HIF-1 and
Met-/Leu-enkephalins compete for the same carrier-nediated transport system
out of the brain.

60253623
