OVERVIEW OF THE CRS REPORT ON ETS AND LUNG CANCER RISK

"The statistical evidence does not appear to support a conclusion that there
are substantial health effects of passive smoking,” So reported the
Congressional Research Service (CRS) in testimony before a Senate
Committee in May of 1994.

CRS has subsequently conducted a detailed examination of the
environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) issue. The CRS document
“Gnvironmental Tobacco Smoke and Lung Cancer Risk," raises serious issues
about reports by EPA and OSHA that serve as the basis of anti smoking
measures.

CRS repeatedly notes instances of substantial uncertainties and unverified
assumptions that call into question those agencies’ handling ETS issues. For
example”

+ Omthe EPA's 1999 classification of ETS as a “Group A" carcinogen, CRS
notes: “For a vatiety of reasons, EPA's conclusions have been controversial.
While many in the scientific community have accepted the EPA conclusions,
others have criticized them. First, the findings on the studies were mixed,
and of the 30 studies examined by the EPA (one Japanese study could not be
used because of the presentation data), 24 found an increased risk, though
only five were statistically significant at the 95 percent level, and six actually
found a negative risk (with one statistically significant). Of the eleven U.S.
studies, eight found a positive risk and three found a negative risk, though
none was statistically significant.” (p. 23)

© Reviewing the four recent studies published since the EPA report, the
CRS indicates “the new studies, including the very large Brownson study, did
not clarify the existence of a risk. Indeed, they complicated the interpretation
Of the evidence since the two largest U.S. studies -- Fontham and Brownson ~
found in once case a positive risk that was barely statistically algnificant and
the other no risk at all” (p. 25)

© CRS notes that even under the questionable approach EPA used (meta-
analysis 40 combine a range of studies), the ETS risk is "very small" "Even
When overall risk is considered, it is a very small risk and is not statistically
significant at a conventional 95 percent level. (p. 25)

+ CRS challenges critical assumptions by OSHA to support its proposed
smoking ban in all U.S. workplaces: "If, on average, workplace exposure is
lower than residential exposure, then it is likely that many workers would
not be exposed to sufficient ETS to be at increased risk for lung cancer. More
extensive workplace exposure data are required before this isaue can be
resolved." (p. 4)

9908S69F0S
