Comments on Hasday, J.D. R. Basonry ‘aud. Gosta, T. Fitzgerald, W. Dubin.
4999, Bacterial Endotoxin Is an Active ‘Component of Cigarette Smoke. ‘Chest
418(@):828-835.

This paper reports on studies to investigate whether bacterial endotoxin in
the form of lpopolysancraride (LPS) is present in cigaratte smoke and might
thersiore play a roe In the development ‘oh chronic bronchitis in cigarette
amokers-
‘The Lumulus amebooyte lysate (LAY) assay was used 1o meas LPS.
{RAF and commercially ‘obtained Salem Light cigarettes were used in this study.
Levels of LPS In tobacco were similar to those reported in other noncombusted
agricultural products. ‘Approximately 19 ‘of the LPS present in tobacco
aaremtedly survives combustion and Was present as a respirable bioactive
‘component of cigarette smoke. inclual numbers reported (see taD1e below) are
feantical to numbers ceported in a Uae from 1996 for levels of LES in tobacco
bout approximately 4 fold higher for icrnia in MS and SS smoke (1). There was
no indication that LPS: levels were elevaiod in the blood of smokers when
‘compared to norrsmokers:
“The threshold levels. tor adverse effects of LPS are reported ta be 100-
590 noi tor an 8 hour day and 6 Tie in ventilation rate. This transintes to 288
to 1528 ngiday (see calculation ‘pelow). Assuming the ‘smoker would be exposed
to 100% of the LPS levels reported in mainstream cigarele ‘smoke, 900 (Light) -
2409 (IRAP) ng LPS would be Jellvered per pack of cigarettes based on the
Piers reported in this study. Using ‘the LES levels for MS smoke (rom the
"998 paper by the same authors (1), The deliveryipack would be conalderably
less (754 ng for TRAF and 226 ng for hier), The current ‘workplace PEL for
fendatoxin is 20ngin” for 6 Limi a niilaion and an 8 hour workday (~ srs
nolday).
Endotoxin and LPS are often carelessly interchanged in the Meratire @.
LPS propariy refers to the fipo-carbohydrate molecules making up the outer
membrane and which have been purified from other contaminating substances
(protein and nuctele acids) from the ‘outer membrane oF cytoplasm. LPS does

ot ex ir association with tre naturel raoeurring proteins that make up the
Sructural integument of most Gram negative bacteria @2). Kt would apeee" that
Sig paper by Hasday etal. is ooking 3 LPS and not tuly endotoxin. itis
Mitlout, It not imposstole, to determine ether or not this distinction IS Important
from a human health point of view:

Ragnar Ayiander has written a shor communication on this paper. |
agree with NS Eeretrent that “aooording tothe abstract ‘the amount fof LPS] 18
high enough to induce an effect in the aways but no data on humans exist" He
mia siggests 2 potential experiment o ‘owatuate endotoxin exposure from
Cigarettes emake in rat inhalation Ottdies, You should already have @ COPY of his
comments.

o109zveLo%
