[nell eel melt peel eel ee pe oe

PROJECT NUMBER: 2106
PROJECT TITLE: Material and Processing Science
PROJECT LEADER: —R. W. Dwyer

PERIOD COVERED: February, 1987

I. TOBAGCO BINDERS (T, Majewskt, W. Genery, A. Robinson, P, Henderson)

A, Qbiective: Design, formulate, and evaluate adhesives for the
Bonded ends, foam injected, and pneumatically formed cod programs.

Status: Dextrans and polydextrose binders are being evaluated as
substitutes for corn syrups and citrus pectins. Maltodexerins are
being examined as tobacco shred stiffeners.

€. Plans: A study is being initiated to determine the influence of
"thermal degradation conditions on the rheological properties of
eitrus pactins. An instrument has been acquired and modified for
examining the effect of temperature and moisture on the mechanical
modulus of cigarettes. This instrument will be used to evaluate
the Influence of tobacco shred stiffeners and binders on cigarette
firmnesses under smoking conditions.

II. BLUIER FLAVORS (7. Van Auken, A. Finley)

A. Obiective: Develop filter flavor-release systems for enhancing
the flavor of low delivery cigarettes.

B. Status: A PVa/menthol filter-flavor system has undergone an
accelerated aging study. Product Development has developed a
means of applying PVA/menthel to filters and plug wraps.
Cigarettes wade from this run ate being examined for nenthel
migration and delivery. FVA/menthol formulations are being
studied for optimum release properties

©. Plans: A laboratory screening technique for evaluating the
release properties of PVA/menthol films is being developed.

IEE. HUMIDOR PACK (T. Van Auken, J. Banyasz)

A. Dbfective: Assist Product Development in selecting a satisfactory
moisture conservation system for cigarette packages.

3. Statua: A number of salts have been examined for saturated
solutions having an RH in the range of 55 to 658. A computer
model Which predicts the RH of saturated salt solutions has been
used to select candidate materials. The moisture transmission of
@ film selected for packaging the salt solutions has been
measured.

¢. Plans: A variety of dicarboxylic acids has heen ordered. They
y
will be converted to their potassium salts and evaluated.

486911 T00z

3
