PROJECT NUMBER: 6505

PROJECT TITLE: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS - TOBACCC
AND CIGARETTE PROPERTIES

PROJECT LEADER: &. L. WATTS
PERIOD COVERED’ DECEMBER 12, 1977 - JANUARY 6, 1978
WRITTEN BY: B. L, WATTS AND J. SEPOMUCENG

COAL STRENGTH STUDIES
A. Cigarette Paper Effects

Perforation of a 30 second paper to give porosity levels of
li and 6 seconds was completed and the papers turned over to
Operation Services in December. The cigarettes are scheduled
to be made the week of January 20.

8, Special Casing Studies.

It was thought that the addition of potassium citrate to
cigarette filler might lead to improvement in cigarette coal
Strength through a fusion type mechanism. Cigarettes with 9¢
and 48 potassium citrate added to the total biend were not found
to be different in their level of coal removal, Additional samples

are heing tested to verify these resuits.

€. Coai Strength Mode?

experimental study designed to investigate the combined
effects of several physical characteristics of a cigarette on its
coal strength was undertaken, Unfiltered 85 mm cigarettes using
Marlboro filler were made at target weights of 0.985, 1.025, 1,068,
1,105, 1.145 and 1.188 grams after one pass through a Mark VII;
naker. Varying tobacco shred lengths were obtained by repeating
the procedure after the second, third and fifth pass Of the filler
through the maker. Ths cigarettes were subsequently moistur:
conditioned and tested for rod densities, average shred leng
tobacco cylinder volume, oven volatiles and coal strength.

A mathematical model attempting to correlate the above physical
parameters with coal strength was investigated through @ multiple
Fegression analysis, Nith only the coal strength resuits for the
cigarettes after the Sth pass still lacking, the analysis jrojects
a reasonably good correlation. The multiple regression mode:

predicts?
cS = 638 + (-919) Or + (-168) by +

with an r? value of 87%. The average shred size showed the highest
partial F value followed by the rod density and cylinder volume, in

chat order,
factor in the correlation,

€S92 1p0Soz

The analysis indicates that the OV was not a contributing 3
