GTR GRANT NO, 2207 PRORESS REPORT NO. 2
Per tod Covered: from Hay 1988-Hay 1989

Ray ¢. Pittman, PhD

Quantitation in vivo of pathways involved in reverse cholesterol transport.

PROGRESS REPORT

The overall specific aim of the original application was to quantify
pathways for reverse cholestero) transport in model animals with a view to their
pertinence in man, We proposed to: 1, datermine the contributions of the various
pathways involved in HDL CE clearance in rabbits: 2, determine the effects of
hypercholesterolenia and hypartriglyceridemia on these pathways; 3, determine
the contributions of the two putative apo E-mediated pathways in rats to HOL CE
slearance, and the sites of CE uptake by these pathways; 4, determine the sites
of uptake of HOL CE in guinea pigs.

HDL cholesterol esters ara taken up by some organs of rats without parallel
uptake of HDL apoprotetns or the HDL particle per se (1). A wide range of cells
exhibit this pathway ia vitro, including cells of human origin (2-5). Previous
studies have outlined some basic properties of the mechanism of this selective
uptake, and have quantified it in vivo in rats (3,8), The process 1s not
dependent on endocytosis and doas not require metabolic anergy. Selective uptake
results in a net mass delivery of cholesterol esters, at least to adrenal cells.
The procass 1s regulated according to the cholestero] status of cells (4,5).
Cultured celts, which are usually studied under conditions of cholesterol
paucity, selectively take up cholesterol esters and this process is down
regulated by prior exposure of tha cells to free cholesterol or to LDL in the
hedium, The process 1s up-regulated in steroidogenic cells by treatment with
tropic hormones, In rats, where normally only Viver and steroidogente tissues
selectively take up cholesterol esters, the pathway can be up-regulated in
steroidogente cells and in muscle, adipose tissue and skin by drug treatment (4-
aminopyrolozo-pyrimidine or T-ethiny] estradiol) to drastically lower plasma
cholesterol levels. Although the adrenal gland and ovary of rats are by far the
host active tissues per unit weight, the livar, by virtue of its size, accounts
for about 90% of whole-body select ive uptake; selective uptake accounts for about
60x of hepatic uptake of HDL cholesterol esters. Thus, to the extent that
transport of cholesterol esters in HOL mediates reverse cholesterol transport,
