ANWEX_B

LUNG CANCER AND ETS: IS THE EPIDEMIOLOGIC EVIDENCE CONCLUSIVE?

PN Lee. ON Lee Stustice amd Compatiog Lid
17 Cedar Road, Settoa, Survey, SMZ SDA, Eagland

Key Words: Environmental tobacea smoke, retative
Tish, epidembologic studies

SUMMARY

Based on epidesiological date relating martage to

a smokes to 6sk of hung cancer ia nonsmoking women,
the US Enviroumeneal Prowection Agency (EPA} eceadly
concluded ETS exposure causes abou 3,000 hung casant
‘deaths anwiually ansong US soasmokers. Deuiled teview
of all avallabie dau. inchoding evidence not considered
by EPA, does ot support this conchusion. In fac, the
epidemiologic evidence tat ETS mereases risk of ling
feancet at all is far from conclusive. Points 1 note
include’

+The sociation becween lung cascee Ask and
tusbands smoking tweak, only one of 14 US
srudies showing a significantly elevated nak

© Thete is no comiswent association with any
specific histological ype of lung cancer.

+ Risk of lung cancer in oomsmokers is on at all
associated with workplace or childhood ETS
‘exponue.

© Blas could explain the 15-20% apparent crease
seen when all che relative tisk estimates for
tuatundts smoking are cxmibined by meis-analyss.
‘Major potenrial sources age misciaesificaion of
active smoking suns and confounding by other
fagk factors, such a6 diet.

jews implaunble shat nonsmokers. coud be ar
eneasurably increased rink of hang cancer from
ETS as they are exposed anly wo very low doses
of smoke constituents

SL Introduction

“Respicatory Heath Effects of Passive Smoking!
tung Cancer and Other Disorders” (EPA, 1992}
renewed published evidence from a number of sources.
Ieconcluded that enviroamental obecco smote (ETS) i
“a human earcnogen, cesponsible for approximately
3,080 lung cancer dembs annualy in US nonsmokers",
based parly on evdence that the mainsyeam smoke
(OMS) indaled by smokers is carcinogenic 1 ihe lung and
Dat MS and ETS are “qulitwively similar in
composition’. and panly on evidence from

epidemiological sadies ta which Ask of hung cancer had
eco compared ia Lifelong nonsmoking womea
seooeding t0 wbecher or Dot thrie ustand smoked. EPA
raed a significene tendency for cisk to be higher if the
fnsband smoked, an association evident tn data from &
umber of counsies. Though the ampocitiion was
clatvety weak, EPA felt it coold wot be explained by
varios possible biases. including bias due to smoket
ndsclssification und confounding by othet risk factors
‘They also emphastzed evidence of a dose relacionship of
hung cancer fick to amount smoked by the busband,
feeling ic "would be an wolikely result of any operative
source of bis of confounding”. The eraimate of 3050
fang cancer deaths due wo ETS was calculned by
estrapolating evidence for females, for lifelong
‘ponamokers, and fot spoural ETS exposure «0 males,
‘excamokets who had piven up five of aiore years ago.
and to ETS expan from other sources.

1e wy book “Environmenual Tobacco Smoke and
Moraligy” (Lee, 1992) 1 extensively reviewed the
evidence ox ETS and hung cancer, concluding it “dott
tot convincingly democatrste dat exporuce 0 ETS
Incteates sak of lung cancer among. nowamoter”
Subsequently, in an updated review (Lee, 19934), 1
preseated avery saailed analysis of dam from 33
epidemiological matics of lung cancer far which resol
‘ave been separately presened for ifelong nonsmokers.
‘Apart from three recent stales (Du, 1993: Toeckel
2991; Lig, 1993) which (all, for convenience, ignore
ss cme ave Lage apd they linke affect the overall
picrae, the 33 sudies (references 11 0 4 of Lee,
19934) represent the tal epidemiological evidence, All
tu duce snadies, Brownson (1992), Kabat (1990),
Stockwell (1992), were conanered by EPA Table |
srmumariaes, using Facd-eflecss met-analysit (Fist
and Gross, 1991) relative risk (RR) estimues (or
tnartage to (or in some studies living with « smoker,
baned on dita derived ftom Gee (1993) and fom EPA
(1992), For sone suis the RR esimates (0 the HORS
feurces differ somewhat {here was ofien 2 chosce ofS
fatimanes or need 19 calculte telaive naks adizeaty) ae
tut the conclusions axe fot continge mon this, €x¢¢
pethape forthe Asian sucies (see Table 1), The data

cerencel by EPA siwly reduce te RRs on Feales =
is they include the largest suxly 0 far conducted)
7
7)
