Cane

sANAOREADRAFT VERSIONS AHAR&H
Results from a Survey of Environmental Tobacco Smoke (ETS)
in Greensboro, NC Restaurants

ca" 76 be Subm: Heel
(oe FovenatAppahed Iadestral Mygitnes ‘
Submitted by: '

william £, Crouse, M. Sue Ireland, Jennifer M. Johnson,
Richard M. Striegel Jr. and cynthia 5. Williard

Report Number: B-458/1 June 6, 1988
Summary or Abstract:

A survey of forty tvo restaurants located in Greensboro, NC
was conducted in order to estimate the exposure of
occupants to environmental tobacco smoke (ETS). ETS
concentrations vere estimated by the measurements of vapor
phase nicotine and ultraviolet particulate matter (UV-PH),
@ method that provides an upper limit for the contribution
of ETS to the concentration of respirable suspended
particles (RSP).

Restaurant selection was governed by the following

criteria: Division of restaurants into food style

categories, e.g. fast food, anerican style, ethnic etc.,

no openly adopted sucking policy, and uniform geographical
distribution of restaurants throughout the city. ’

Samples vere collected for approximately one hour with a
battery-operated portable air sampling system or PASS.
The sampling pumps were enclosed in what appears to be
an ordinary looking briefcase.

Nicotine was quantitated with gas chromatography and
nitrogen specific detection. UV-PM was determined
spectrophotonetrically by the analysis of methanolic
extracts of the RSP fraction, «oy.

The frequency distributions of nicotine, UV-PM and RSP
concentrations were determined to be log-normal, thus,
measures of central.tendency were expressed geometrically.
Meatconcentratipns of nicotine, RSP, and UV-PM were

a8 so 8, and 2<f ug/m3, respectively. The mean CO

concentration vas 2.7 ppm. Estimated exposures
ey obtained from mean nicotine and UV-PM results were
2.0049 9.0054 and 0.00/74 cigarette equivalent per hour,
respectively. Based upon these data, it would require

?

TLOPTELS

an average contipous exposure of and hours to
obtain the equivalent of one cigayette for/nicotine and
“tar”, respectively.
ms ¥ zo Wy
xe: 3.H. Bell ¥._ Norman Library

Hed, Minnemeyer = F.J. Schultz
i

2.00tF
