dee 3 Peeper
ty in the CD® Rat

Longevity and Fe!

Charles River
TABORXTORES

Genetic Management of the COO Rat:
Minimizing inbreeding, Genetic Dritt and Colony Divergence by Systematic
‘Outbreeding and Animal Migration

Background

‘The outbred stock of Charles River's Gri:CD® (SO)BR rats (known as CD
for cassarean-derived) was developed over 40 yeara ago by Charles River
Laboratories, While associated with the Sprague-Dawley outbred stock,
developed in the late 1920s, the CD® rats of loday are undoubtedly Gifferent
from this original stock and those meintained at other institutions. Over 20
colonies of CD® rats are malntainad worldwide in the Charles River system.

Longevity

During the past several years, Charles River Laboratories has become
increasingly aware of what appears to be diminished longevity of singly housed,
‘ad fib fed CD® rats. This alteration in longevity appears to have developed
gradually over the last 20 years. The groups most concemed with this finding
have been pharmaceutical, industrial and contract toxicology programs whose
two year product registration studies can be affecied by 9 decrease in longevity.

‘The magnitude, reproducibility and cause of this alteration in tongevity
has net been estabiished in the peer-reviewed literature. While health status,
genetics, and nutrition have all been suggested as contributing factors, onty
genetics would appear to ft the epidemiologic circumstances associated with the
development of this phenomenon.

Some have proposed caloric restriction as a mechanism for slowing or
reversing the deciine in longevity in the CD® rat. Those advocating caloric
restriciion as a means for increasing longevity have made a compelting
argument that obesity in aged CD® rats fed ad fib is unacceptable and
polentisily inhumane. Obesity may also influence toxicologic studies and may
diminish the effectiveness of this biological last system by unduly attering the
aging process and the rate of development of spontaneaus lesions.

Other members of the toxicologic community are uncomfortable wilh food
restriction as & means of deating with this problem. They have expressed

15 Barta Sret, Winton, Matches OT (56) SSE FAX (06) 6587582
asc od omens

PSTSEESZ0Z
