CHARGE NUMBER: 2306

PROGRAM TITLE: Flavor Component Evaluation
PROJECT LEADER: = RM. Ikeda

PERIOD COVERED: February 1 - 26, 1982
DATE OF REPORT: March 4, 1982

R.M. Tkeda

WRITTEN B

|. Tobaceo Flavor!

Fraction 5 collected from the silicic acid colum chromatograph
Separation Of the nonvolatiles of Zimbabwe tobacco imparted a desirable
flavor response to smoke. This fraction was further separated by reverse
phase HPLC. Because of the large number of peaks in the chromatogram,
the collection was made into three subfractions instead of collecting
each Individual peak. Repeated HPLC separations were carried out to

Obtain a sufficient ancunt of material for evaluation on a low delivery
cigarette.

IL. Flavors and Casings?

The purge and trap gas chromatographic (P&T/GC} analysis, which was
discussed in the last report, was used to anlyze a nurber of comercial
cigarettes. This technique was also used to analyze a flavored and une
flavored Commonwealth prototype cigarette model. Only the major peaks

in the added flavor were detected in the flavored model. Two samples

were analyzed by the P&T/GC analysis for the New Products graup. One
sample was the Bridon filter, which was found to contain a number of very
volatile components. The other sample was a sample of menthol encapsulaced
on paper with PVA.

Further work was carried out on the identification of the flavor
Components of vanilla beans. Reverse phase HPLC separations were run on
Some selected fractions separated from the vanilla beans. Vanillin and
Several smaller peaks were detected with the UY detector and two sugars
with the RI detector. Gas chromatographic retention times were determined
for @ number of compounds identified by GC/MS in the vanilla beans to
further confirm their identification. A Tist of the compounds identified to
date in the vanilla beans and the S-600 flavor was given to the Flavor
Development group to aid in the formulation of a substitute flavor.

IIL. References a7) Side

1, Notebook #7574, pp. 108-111

2, Notebook #7674, pp. 181-200
Notebook 47731, pp. 1-16
Notebook #7723, pp. 13-16

T2eTerooor

