ACCEPTARILITY OF A NICOTINE NASAL SPRAY IN AIDING INITIAL SMOKING CESSATION

James Grobe, B.S,, Kenneth Perking, Ph.D., Delia D’Amica, B.S., Caroiyn Foatc, RLN.& Jennifer Gocttler, BA.
‘Western Peyebintric Institute & Clinic, Universty of Pitsborgh

“The development of cote replacement shorapat has been sn extremely important aivanoc in smoking cestaion treatm.
[Nevertheiess, cutetly avadablo treatments (cicotins polaoniex ~ gun, and transdermal nicotine ~ paich) only result i less than hal
of pacts suomastully uiting. Nicotine nasal preys migy ive wlity as a nicotine replacement adjunct in smoking cessation apd
_my have potential advantages over other existing ncthods. Nasal spray methods dliver nicotine more rapidly tothe brain and are
thus generally closer speed totha of ioking. Fordharmore, nasal pray mcihods my alow patients to have more precise coool
‘over dosing (14, choose how mnch they want and wz).

“The preset say wes designed to tent fh acceptability (Le, rate of use) of anictinenasel spray method curing the frst week
ef evoking comstiam. The octal delivers doses thet are relatively Jow in concentration. To get a doeo spproxiantely oqval to that
‘of ecigmesia, a patent would ned io amine 8-12 sprays — upuily done ver & period of two mins o longer. Such & metbod more
losdiyeumics the ernie puding of smnckers on cigatetica and allows the patent to have relatively presse control over dosing
‘Besides wcoeptabliy, this stdy ccmized the effzc of the spray on withdrawal and mood, Hawevet, given the Grif duration of use
(ac weet), differential rate of abtinance between niotine abd placebo were aot ancessarily expected.

METHODS

provided by a thorapit blind to dose (IEG).
‘Toble 1: Mean (cange) characteristics (or all subjects ceceiving nicotine or placebo aanal spray (a=26 cath),

Drug Female ‘Age | Fagereerom | #Cigaretts | Years | Cassation
Condition 1 #Male Score (0-18) 7Day | Sooking

5)
Nicotine wi | s2s@i4 | 3709 | wzass | is0g2 | 35@5
Placebo. 16/10 312 G04 | s5@s | 230050 | 127627 | 360-9)

Subjects completed selt-rezort measures (withdrawal, desire to smoke, POMS mood, sd sie efftcts) before quiting and
ving day nb visa during the firt week of cesstica, Plasma sacnplea were alse obtained during the week-before quiting and at
the end of the quit week to assess extine levels. Participants alsa selC-monitored spray se and rated peroeived wsefulnes of the
speay during the quit week.

‘After the lat group counseling session, subjects were instructed t stop smoking on the Sunday preceding the quit week,
Subjects received thir ist spray botle oa the Monday af the quit week and came in on each of the four remaining weeksays (Tues-
Fi tomazive fish spray botlc retum forms, provide an expired-air CO sample, and comptes subjerive measures, Since subjects
dot receive a speny bot until they had quit for one day, data from Dy L reflects cessation without any spray assistance and data
foo Days 2-5 compare the effects of nicotine vs. placcbo nase spray on the dependect measures,

rer a tho Ix Annual Metng ofthe Soci fr Reach on Niatna and Tobacco, San Diego, CA, March 95. Thin esearch me
‘arp by raat OAATTRGS from the Nsonal Ltt gx Duy Abos> (KAP)

SLSOCLEROS
