CHARGE NUMBER: 4009

PROJECT TITLE: Stoke Studies - Development

PROJECT LEADER; 8. Goodman

PERIOD COVERED: February, 198%

iL

I.

HUMAN SMOKER SIMULATOR
A. Product. Studies

Several ultra low tar cigarettes have been smoked by Jow-del ivery
smokers on profile recorders. Their statistical average will be used
sroketeeraining particulate and gas phase deliveries 0 the smokers
for ae brands relative to competitive brands of similar tar delivery.

‘A study has been completed of 5 ma cigarettes developed during
the Herit Ultra Lights progran. Several different blends and flavors
ture tested and compared to control Merit cigarettes a8 well as Golden
Tights and Vantage. The panelists were also ‘asked to rate each cigarette
Gn’a special ballot. A completion report 1s being written.

B. Gasic Studies

The long-term effect of brand changes upon smoking profiles is
being studied. The objective fs to determing fa smoker changes his
profile permanently when he changes to 2 different brand, or if he
gradually reverts back to a set patterd. ‘The study was timed to coincide
Bah the availability of Merit Ultra Lights at R&D, £0 that volunteer
vitters who wanted to change their regular brand to the new cigarette
sree be followed over a six-month period. After that time, they will
fevasked to change back to their previaus brand for additional profile
recordings.

WRAPPER MODIFICATIONS

A, Catfon/Anion Ratio Study

The study te determine the effect of salts applied to the wrapier is
continving, bata from the sodium citrate sertes shows sone, jateresting
Sones fmoveduced CO and CO per puff as the concentration of the citrate
tenes Increased relative to the concentration of the sodium ton.
Hirtional coatings are planned to examine effects of sodium and citrate
further from the usual 3:1 ratio.

Cigarettes nave been made for the series of sodium chioride additions
to wrapbers Results of wrapper analysis Indicate additional coatings witl

be required for this series as well. 001402120
B. ” Low Sidestream Wrapper

Pretininary data has been received from R. Hellans on sides tream
delivery of cigarettes made fron the Ecusta low stdestream wrapper:

