Bozarth: Is Nicotine Addictive? A Re-evaluation of the Data

Is Nicotine Addictive? A Re-evaluation of the Data

Report! presented to the FDA Drug. Abuse Advisory Committee, 2. August 1994 by
Michael A. Bozarth, Ph.D.

My name a Michael Bozarth Lam an Associate Professor of Psychology with the State University
wow York at Buffalo. Thave been asked by representatives of the Philip ‘Morris Management
Corporation to express my views on drug addiction, is underlying biological basis, and the widely
popularized notion that nicotine is an addictive substance. ‘Although Ihave not previously
expressed ray position formally, welcome this opporinity to “speak out" on a topie of serious
sae jem for ihe scientific community—that topic concerns the hasty conclusions drawn from an
inadequate empirical database. I strongly believe the scientific ‘community is responsible for

scnriaterated facts 90 the public and the goverament can make informed decisions.
ene ny public trust scientists to adequately interpret their data and to resmai unbiased by political
cor other pressures. I foe! that this trust bas been seriously compromised regarding the issue of
tobacco use.

{inthis brief statement I will develop the argument that research has failed to substantiate the olaim
that nicotine is addictive. To the coutrery, it is difficult to document evel) mildly rewerding effects
from nicotine, Because of time limitations, Twill restrict my presentation '0 few key issues. The
‘evidence presented here is exemplary of o much larger series of argume=ts that refute the main
cre uaione of the 1988 Surgeon Generals report. An exhaustive, point-Dy pom critique of that
report is not possible with the limited time allowed for preparston My main objective today is to
roaden the debate by involving scientists who have no vested interest ia this issue.

Brief Biographical Sketch

received tty Bachelor's degree from Somhern Ilinois University (1976: Carbondale), my
Masia’: degree from Rensselaer Polytechnic Insitute (1978; Troy, New York), and my Doctorate
degrer from Concordia University (1983; Montréal). have published over 50 scientific articles
cee rave collectively received aver 1000 citations is the professional Meralir Treceived the first
Toseph Cochin Young Investigator Award in 1987 from the Committee on Problems of Drug
Dependence for my research investigating “the biological basis of ‘abused substances.” have
eeved as consultant for grant ceviews with the National Instnute on Drug ‘Abuse, the National
Laathute of Aleoho} Abuse and Alcoholism, the National Instinte of ‘Mental Heath, the National
Sciente Foundation, the Medical Research Council (Canada) the Addiction Research Foundation
CToronta), and various other agencies, I organized a sympotiam oo ‘methods of assessing drug
creroreement (Boston, 1983), and 5 have edined a book oa this topic (M.A. Bozarth, ed., Methods
of Assessing the Reinforcing Properties of Abused Drugs. Spring- Verlag, New York, 1987). 1

1 TAS Tet da ofa paper euneatybengwaiten fora perv journal i ached 6
i eeauernton ft dlberons, and ts ofeed ar axpanded trim onj tt authors portion
ce apaieon” hypothe. Severo tone conrints necessane Qiersinaing St ough drat

caja. References and other ebtustaing materials knve been owitied

=2-

FOZLTSIFNS
