AT/05 “pA as

‘Wes 2203 203382

4INBIFO Koeln

DRUG AND ALCONOL-RELATED PROBLEMS an

‘We do sot have any comparable anlagonist or
immediately ceveraing the efforts of wcohol cr bare
Blusratetite drugs, bot other techatcal and. coo
Sepliad advances make I meccasary (0 ashume tht
Payakal dependence on the later érups comura [az
ooaer than ihe daye or weal that ware prosfoaty
believed necesiary. For example, meaturements of
sleeping palieres using analyes of albniph elacioco-
coofaogan resol sien Oa ot of ah
‘ctiagsodallve drugs for afew nights may be fllawed
bby a “rebound insomnia” when tse drug fs dco

ed. Tiras, cur concepts of pbysical depeateacs
sand its relauonshlp to devg-ceeking bebuviour must
Fevogalze the rapidity wilh which tow level of The

Stresomenon dewclop.

"Similarly, the dietnctiona betweee socially accey-
Uae level of frog intake (ep, slenbol end tobaero)
and levels that are Meleally hazardous ate Bghiy
‘Seprodenteoa dhe seattvity of matbods For meairing
ological damage and risk, For years was caumed
Dat crly heavy and profonked alcohal wee wat assoc.
‘od with sgaifecant damage to Une strvoture and
funetioa of te bra, bot with aoe xenslve payee
logit wens 250 computeriad vial lomography
(CAT) scanners, i's becoming apparent Gar ecm
fervour ayaim impairment gecure even in thoge ho
Nave no history af malnutsiton and chat rome sabe
impalimens may Govlop en veda ey”,

‘Many other evamples could be slven bul these Cem
‘Masieatloas are pulfciem to make the pornt tbat aw
technologies ray force radical reappraisal of fd
{ieureptions, and in Ue process cal Foy couslcarable
Tevidon of concept and ierminologles.

Wheto drug?
“The exact definlilan of

“grag i a very old
id any working party om

‘hich ahi term fe oped.

Ia 1968, te WHO Exper C
Deependenee (7) defined a drug aa“
‘wht tan ino tha ving orgasm, may moally ne

ood, water, oxygen, endocrine mubvtances, ete, 32
singunis required for the meinteautoe of socal

Bealth,

“A second level of definition could then specify Oke
sas whch these olin tor “dragnet, They
nay be ued foe tbe wealnent or aleviation af acase
(Unwhieh case they are also designated as medications,
Bierupeolie agen, eet, nic} of for mowhera
peuse purposes. Ii this case, while otber languages
‘employ different rms, 5. drogue (Preneh), Reusch
‘mite! (Garman), astapefoctente Gpanish), English
{alls back on such berets as gonvmedical mee of drugs,
rug abuse, ee.

‘Ata thi (evel of spesifintin, ane may differend-
ate chemical ede on the basis of ibe bodily sysiem,
‘oc Function om whlch they exert het mont mared o¢
‘obvious effect "Pryehourcve droge” ape thore at
ser mood. canton, and bebwous. Hower,
tere are no sharp boundaries between
imp bod hoe not co degmaeds Hace cases
luted primarly Tor ater effect may have peyeko-
‘tive elfecis a4 eetain dosea ot Under cerutin 2o0-
Aitgeas Neverthe, broad areas of egrezmert #04
‘Sansersuc cals, anal underlies the rent schemes of
Dhwmacologieal clanification Prychaacline éewss
nay be, uf the acoaad level, eldber therapeutic or name
therapeutic agen and some peyehaactvesubsunces
‘may bs used for both puepoes.

“Ata fourth tevel of definition, oF concern is wih
ostble adverse affects on health oe social Funccion
‘Not all ptyehoscive érogs are equally ikety toe self

‘athe present ecootext, ove concern primarily with
rene coils that we cam define 24 noneraedicaly-
iuyedpaychoactve drugs thot pre BRaly to be He
sdmlniiered. For miosis bot nota of rae, euch we
(Gan who pve rs to other phenoracoa (euch as toler=
See, Jrupeerking bchaviow wader various coud.
‘Gand, Blalogical adupatlon, response gensralization,
ic) Theveape a least 13 proupy of such muDMANCeL
ar cause aliBeuldes of pullicem magnizode and
‘eithsutfilent frosts fo warrant ther being placed
‘Under this heading.

se, ede, an misuse ~

Abuse" and “mirase”” are uneatishuctory
‘concepts witha a sieve approach. Bucause Ue

ooz
