Phenylacetic Acid

Terminology

Phenylacetic acid is also known as benzeneacetic acid and alpha-
toluic acid. (1) It is a glistening white crystalline solid with
a penetrating animal~civet-like odor at high concentrations and a
sweet-honey-like character at very low concentrations. {2,3)

Sources

Phenylacetic acid has been reported to be found among the
constituents of a few essential oils, notably of tobacco, Rosa
centifolia (4), Bulgarian rose (5), orange flowers absolute (6),
neroli (7) and Mentha arvensis of Japanese origin. (@} Tt has
been reported to be present in tobacco smoke (9,20) and among the
volatile constituents of cocoa. (11)

A comparison of the “volatile organic acids” in the essential
ile of various American and Oriental tobaccos revealed that the
concentrations of phenylacetic acid in Bright, Burley and Orien-
tal varieties are 8.1, 5.1 and 21.1 mg per 100g of tobacco,
respectively. (22) The acid has also been identified in a number
9f food sources including honey, dried mushrooms, roasted
peanuts, potatoes, hydrolyzed soy protein, black tea, wine and
has been reported in black pepper at a level of 18 ppm. (13)

Conmercially, it is manufactured by either the acid or alkaline
hydrolysis of benzyl cyanide. 14) Many other methods of
manufacturing phenylacetic acid are given in the literature but
none of them has been used commercially.

Usage

The largest single use of phenylacetic acid is in the form of a
64% aqueous solution of its potassium salt as a penicillin
precursor. The second largest use is in the production of
phenylacetone needed for amphetamine production. Also, in the
Medical field, phenylacetic acid esters have been prepared having
spasmolytic, local anesthetic, and cough relieving properties.
aay

This acid is one of the most important perfumery acids, and it is
widely used, although only in minute proportions, in fragrances
and flavors. (2) Many esters of phenylacetic acid are used in
the perfume and flavor industries. The following esters are the
most widely used: methyl-, honey and rose odor; ethyl-, honey
odor; isobutyl-, mild and pleasant odor: @-phenylethyl—, mild
rose odor; and amyl-, chocolate odor. Acid usage in fragrances
and flavors in the USA amounts to approximately 7000 lbs/year.
(13,15) rt is used in flavor compositions for its honey-effect

99989048

