neurones which innervate the prefrontal cortex and which originate in a
specific mesencephalic nucleus

- The respective roles of dopamine in the prefrontal cortex and the nucleus
accumbens "core" on the processing of information passing through the
neuronal loop originating in the prefrontal cortex and passing successively
through the nucleus accumbens, the substantia nigra, the thalamic medio-
dorsalis nucleus and the prefrontal cortex will be examined thanks to
electrophysiological approaches. Attempts will also be made to determine
the effects of nicotine on this neuronal loop.

- The role of glutamatergic neurones which originate in the prefrontal cortex
and project either in the nucleus accumbens or in the vertro-tegmental area
on the control of DA release in the nucleus accumbens and on motor
activity will be examined by determining the effects of various blockers of
glutamatergic transmission on both parameters, these blockers being applied
either in the nucleus accumbens ot the ventro-tegmental area This should
help to better define the pattern of DA release which is required to elicit
locomotor activity. Using the same experimental design, i.e. chronic animals
{implanted with cannulae), we will then examine the effects of nicotine
application in the prefrontal cortex on the release of DA in the nucleus
accumbens and on motor activity.

~ Finally, attempts will be made to determine whether a permissive action of
noradrenaline is required for the development of the sensitisation process
induced by nicotine as it is the case for amphetamine. This could help to
further define the different mechanisms invoived in the sensitisation
processes of amphetamine and nicotine

3) The neuroprotecting effect of nicotine

2.1 General background

As you may remember, a few years ago, using neurones from the mouse
striatum in culture, we discovered that nicotine as well as acetylcholine had
a potent protecting effect on the neurotoxicity induced by ghitamate or by
agonists of the N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamatergic receptors. This
protecting effect of nicotine was found to result from its action on central
nicotinic receptors.

Our results were rapidly confirmed by Japanese workers who obtained
similar results on neurones from the cerebral cortex but who used different
experimental conditions to demonstrate the protecting effect of nicotine.

This discovery has lead some pharmaceutical companies to laok for specific
agonists of nicotonic receptors which could act more specifically on. central

4

