We are interested in understanding the mechanism of eucatyotic DNA primase and q
examining inhibiton of it by several nucleotide analogues. Primase synthesizes the RNA @
primers that are then elongated by the replicative DNA polymerase, and is therelore essential
for DNA replication (t}. All known eucaryotic primases share several features; i) they exist as
a multisubunit compiex (PP complex) with DNA polymerase a, and the pol « is associated
with @ peptide of ca. 180 kilodaltons (2-4); ii) primers are synthesized on polypyrimidines (ex.,
poly (dT)), bul not palypurines (5); ii) complete primers are of discrete length (ca. 10
nucleotides}, even on homopolymer DNA (2) and: iv) with ‘natural’ DNA, the initial nucleotide
is ATP, although GTP will suflice (6,7). These similarities suggest that the mechanisms of
eucaryotic primases are all quite similar, The source of enzyme for this work is calf thymus,
which was chosen on the basis of ils high yield during purification (ca. 2 mg PP from 500 g
celts (2)),

Our present work is directed towards; i) developing a DNA template of defined
sequence that supports primer synthesis and: i) understanding the unusual processivity of
primase Previous work with primase has typically utilized either phage DNA (ex. M13) or
synthetic homopolymers (@x. poly (AT) (2.8)). For a number of these studies, a DNA template
of defined sequence would be advantageous since we could control the nucleotides to be
polymerized. To this end, we have synthesized a DNA oligomer based on nucleotides §584-
5603 of M13 that supports primer synthesis in the presence of ATP and GTP. The primers are
8-10 nucleotides long, bul due to the polypyrimidinic nalure of this template, we do not yet
know the precise primer initiation site.

DNA (3) AAGCTCTTTCCTICCCTICTTICGCTITAA F

The initiation site(s) will be defined by incubating PP with DNA2, GTP and [a-
S2PJATP, then dNTPs will be added to form runoff replication products. The length of the
products will determine the approximate start site and the number of slat sites, Only the
approximate start site will be known due to the small differences in the electrophoretic mobility
of RNA and DNA and the primer 5" triphosphate. If only ane product is detected, the start site
will be ascertained by partial base hydrolysis of the products of reactions as above, except
[2P)ATP will be replaced with [a-32P|UNTPs. After gel electrophoresis, a ladder of products
will be observed, with the shontest product containing only DNA. The number of bands in the
product ladder gives the length of the primer and the length of the shortest praduct gives the 3°
terminal nucleotide of the primer. Thus together, these data will demarcate the primer
syothesis site. In the case of muttiple initiation sites, site specific mutagenisis of the template
will be used to reduce the number of sites to one. Initially, the approximate location of each
sian site will be determined by forming runoff replicalion products as above, Elimination of
unwanted start sites will be attempted by converting pyrimidines in the template to purines,
since primase appears to require pyrimidine rich DNA for initiation of primer synthesis.

Using @ poly (dT) template and ATP, primers ate mainly 8-11 nucleotides long, similar
{0 previous work (2). Interestingly, while decreasing the ATP concenitation from 200 4M 10 25
uM resulted in a 18-fold decrease in the rate of primer synthesis, the distribution of complete
(8-11 nucleotides) primers did not vary. This indicates that processivity is nol a competition
between dissociation and ATP polymerization, since tho polymerization rate is ATP.
dependent. Rather, processivity must be determined by a compelition belween dissociation
and an ATP independent step, tor example translocation. Similar results were obtained by 8
decreasing the polymerization ate via inclusion of CTP or GTP.

