PROJECT MN@ER: ©1902
PROJECT TITLE: Cal1/Tissue Culture Research

PROJECT IRADER: 1.
WarTTEN BY: a

Uydaas,
Jone:

PERICD COVERED: May, 1989,

Gbisctive: To davelop methods and to evaluate the alcroflors
resident in tobacce materials.

Mtatua: Five cigarette sodels warn fabricated from DL strip blend
in the OC Seni-worke (C. Rowe) to support an d-weok ART atorage
study designed hy W, Heapfling and R. Cacchaan. the first two
models wera made from the original, non-ertracted Di strip blend +
humectanta and aftercut, The final three models vare aesonbled
from this same blend after supercritical extraction, Ail models
were constructed to equivalent firmess and placed Loto desert
(43°C/154 RAL and Jungle (43°C/tS0 Ral) coo for « period of
weeks. Additional samples of each sodel were frozen (-00°C)
Ammediately after production a9 well as on each sample date to
Serve a9 controls. As of the tine of this writing, O-time, +2 aay,
+7 day, and 42 week samples had beea withdrawn from each of the
Sforenentioned storage conditions and analyzed for bacteria, yeast
and mold by menbara of Project 1902. Parallel samples vere also
distedbuted on each sample date to members of the Analytical
Ragearch Division (B. mandy) and to the Cigarette Testing Labor:
tory at the OC (B. Wickham). The data from the microbiological
Portion of this investigation will act be available until the
conclusion of tha study (July-August, 1989) .

Conclusions: Nour to be reported ar thie time.

lang: Additional samples for aierobiolegy, chemical and Cx
Casting will be evaluated at 1-2 week intervals through the week
of duly 2, 1989.

Pafarence:

Chadick, D, Notebook Wo. 9625, p. 6

Sbiestiva: to develop procedures and to conduct microbiological
screens ¢o evslucte nature-\dentical prenervatives a3 replacements
for and/or as adjuncts to propylparaben.

statu:

A, the antimicrobial activities of valerophenone, 3-pheoyl, 1-
propanol, fi-cyclociteal, B-homocyclocitral, 2-decanone and 1~
phenyl, 1-propanol were evaluated in tha Phase I agar inclusion

7

BE9ALTZZOZ
