[Attachment 2]

& GUILFORD LABORATORIES, INC.
PO Box 9738/Pazo StotionGreensbora, NC, 2408

Introduction

Through the middle of 1980, a great deal of cigarette ignition resistance
testing was perforned on upholstered furniture,:mattresses, snd Fi1Ting components
used in the manufacture of these products. The majority of this testing involved
the use of unfiltered cigarettes as the test ignition source, During this period,

{the market hare held by unfiltered cigarettes was stonly decreasing to the level
of approximately 6 - 7x, Also, from 1976 through 1980, significant changes in
the materials and methods of construction were taking pTace in the upholstered

furniture industry,
In 1976, serious efforts were initiated by the upholstered furniture industry,
through its industry association, the Upholstered Furniture,tetién Council, Inc.
(UFAC), to apply the knowledge gained over the preceeding four years of research
toward improving the’ cigarette tonition resistance of 1ts product. This effort
stemmed from the actions of the Department of Comerce which published a proposed
finding of need for a standard for the Slasmabivity of upholstered furnitue under
the Flanmable: Fabrics Act in November of 1972,
In 1977, UFAC First proposed a voluntary industry standard as the alternative
to mandatory regulation to the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), which
had been given the responsibility for the Flannable Fabrics Act in 1974, In early
1978, UFAC unilaterally initiated its Voluntary Action Program. The program was
based upon four (4) construction criteria and five (5) test methods for conpaggnt
specification,
‘The five test methods are:
J, The UFAC Fabric Classification Test Hethod.
2, The UFAC Welt Cord Test Method.
3. The UFAC Decking Materials Test Hethod,
4, The UFAC Padding/Fitling Materials Test Method.
5. The UFAC Barrier Materials Test Hethod.

862652970,

The four construction criterfa based upon these test methods are:

2. The use of only those welt cords which pass the UFAC Welt Cord Test
Method.
