1? Sag BD

DEA why DRATT

Eaxinfio B1033/ Posoos204

‘The biological activity of the mainstrcam smoke of the test cigarette URSUS was determined

relative to that of the standard reference cigarette 1R4F in a 21-day inhalation study oa rats. The
ceveeibiltyof findings wil be ivestighed following a 42<ay postinhaltion peiod.

Uk ec he fat ermal off the 2s pee
“The smoke was generated in basic conformity with [SO standards, deviations for URSUS being
necessary due to its design. URSUS was afioked at 15 Joul, lis sence was diated with filtered
sod condoned tes ai wlan ol puree water (TPM concntations of 50 and 10 ug
‘TPMA, Smoke of the 1R4F was diluted to target TPM concenitations of 100 and 200 ug TeMal
‘The low and bigh TRB dosefof she 1RAF were expected to produce biologic! activity similar to
the respective Pet dosfof URSUS.
ne apn of lhe biological activity of URSUS with LR4F, both delivering different iypes of

acrosols, was based on the dose-response relationships obtained for both amoke types using,

Parameters elvan fe cgacte sok uae fn smokes, such a8 TPM, cone and smoke

covcenaton, cates Fut (20 puition

‘Toe TPM concentrations determined in the test atmnspheres for the low and high dose groups

‘of URSUS were 40 and 80 ug TEMA respectively. The comesponding ones of 1RAF were 80 and
170 pg TPMA, The nicotine concentrations determined in the test atmospheres for the low and
high dose groups of URSUS were 6 and 11 jg nicotine/l. The corresponding ones of 2R¢F were
approx. equal. The ealeulated smoke concentrations in the test atmospheres for the low and
bigh dose groups of URSUS were 0.26 and 0.54 putis/. Compared to IR4F aporox. Stimes as
much URSUS as IR4F petit to be applied to generate the low and high test atmosphere
‘TPM concentrations. The earbou monoxide concentrations determined in the test atmospheres

the low and high dose groups of URSUS were 16 and 32 ppm. The ones of 1R4F were a factor

of 6 higher. The formaldehyde and acrolein concentrations determined in the test atmos-
ppheres for the low dose group of URSUS were 0.6 and 0.4 ppm, those in the high dose group of

Fotos,
foohnct

EA joe
Bontet

BES ES IO
