1 een tnd oH IRS

October 5, 1989

SUMMARY OF DATA ON SUGARS

The term "sugar® refers to a variety of different
chemical entities, including sucrose, glucose, fructose, corn
syrups, honey, dextrin, and lactose.’ These products are
ubiquitous components of food products. They are used in the
manufacture of cigarettes to adjust the pi of smoke, thereby
reducing irritation and mellowing the taste. Sugars are approved
for cigarette use in Great Britain and Germany.

Sugars have been the subject of extensive toxicological
testing, which has generally indicated no adverse health effects
ether than dental caries. TIsclated studies have produced results
that were of concern, but these have generally not been replicated
or used sugar concentrations well in excess of typical human
exposure levels.

Studies have shown that sugars pyrolyze in cigarettes, and
only a small percentage of sugars appear intact in the smoke, A
wide range of pyrolysis products are formed. Research on the
toxicological effects of sugar pyrolyzates has been equivocal.
Skin-painting studies indicate that, at low concentrations, the
presence of sugars in the cigaratte does net affect the
tumorigenicity of cigarette smoke condensate, but there may be
some effect at higher levels. Sugars appear to decrease the
mutagenicity of condensate.

Background. In a broad sense, the term “sugar” refers to a
group of simple sugars, the monosaccharides, and the multi-unit
di-, tri-, and tetrasaccharides, The term oligosaccharide is
Teserved for the complex or compound sugars generally composed of
two to four units, Sugars are classified as simple carbohydrates,
as distinguished from cellulose and starch, and are characterized
by their varying degree of sweetness, water solubility,
insolubility in ether and absolute alcohol, ability in aqueous
solution to rotate a plane of polarized light, and similarity in

chemical structure (Leach, 1920),

SL669929

The common sweetener sugar consists essentially of pure

Sucrose (CAS No. 57-S0-1), which is a colorless or white
