PROJECT NUMBER; — 2704

PROJECT TITLE: Acrosol Research
PROJECT LEADER: PJ. Lipowicz
‘WRITTEN BY: T.M Howell

PERIODCOVERED: — Murch, 1993
3. Hlasoring water aerosol
A. Objective: Formulate a flavor system for a water aerosol.

B. Resulis: A syrop base containing a blend of dark and light cora syrup with
‘caramel flavoring was formulated with glycerol citric acid and sodium citrate 10
produce a flavor foundation for the nicotine aerosol. The intent was to produce 2
quid system that was neutral to taste and slightly sweet which gave mouth and
‘throat feel" without prounoting a cough response, In order to reduce the throat
invitation response, ax cstimate of com syrup concentration was made to produce
‘an overall isotonic solution, Evaluation of the syrup base using the Ulra-Neb
nebulizer in the configuration previously disclosed reguted in ony a sight
‘ough response and an overall pleasant inhalation experience. Addition of 1000
pia nicotine to the solution produced controllable cough sensation with 2
‘moderate throat burn. Upon including about 0.1 % NaCl inthe solution the
harshness was somewhat alleviated bata slightly sahy afteruste developed.

C. Constusions: The syrup base developed gave the neutral flavor response and
‘mouth feel anccipated but adjustments are required to counteract the harsh
response produced by the nicotine. Methods will he needed to bener deseribe
ths isotonicity of the solution, to make comparisons between flavor Systems and
to adjust the acid-base character ofthe aerosol,

1D. Plans: Continue to develop and evaluate flavor systems for the aerosol delivery
of nicotine that will ulimately yield an overall pleasam and satisfying inhalation
experience,

T. _Ammlwsis of flavored ater aerosols

A. Qhiective: Develop methodology for evaluating the physical and cheriical
‘characteristics of a flavored aerosol and for comparing the flavor, attributes ot.
diiterent formulations.

B. Results: Fabsication of a second nebulizer unit is almost complete. This unit
‘will be used in conjunetion withthe fist urit to perform side by side
comparisons of flavoe formulations snd physical responses to aon flavoring
adiitives.

PPRGESSEZLOS
