ASSOCIATION

A Ceitical Assessment of the Evidence on the
Cigerette Smoking - lung Cancer Relationship
Theodor D. Sterling, Ph.D., Professor

Dept. of Applied Hathenatics & Computer Science
Washington University, St. Louis, Mo. 63130

}0 A.M. December 28, 1972

Sheraton Hotel...”

AAAS Symposium, Smoking and Health Now
Sheraton Hotel,

Progran
Soavention Address

“RELEASE TIME 2
. 9:00 A.M. December 28

ABSTRACT

Mach of the data that hes becone available since the report of the Surgeon.”
General's committee (Smoking and Health) raise serious questions about the
validity of the widely ssaunéd clgerette snoking/lung cancer 1ink:

Li There exists substantial evidence that the sssociations between smoking
and lung cancer reported by the two erucial prospective studies con-
ducted by the American Cancer Society mey have been the result of biased
selection procedures by which study populations were assembled.

2. A prospective study was ctarted in 1965, couparing over a quarter sil-
lion Japenese smokers and nonsmokers. This study avoided the "volun—
tering" aspect in the selection of subjects that is the major smurce
of bias in ell the Anericen, Canadian, and British prospective studies.

+ We @ifference of any consequence was found between the mortality of
smoker's and nonsmokers.

3. Sterting with 1954, the incidence of lung cancer in England, Wales, and
|” the United States seens to have leveled off and even declined for all
‘but the older males. Tt is unlikely that this decline can ve

related to the rapid increase in stoking habits--a trend that was not
qs. Feversed until 1964,

4. There are e number of other observations, mostly on population aggre-
gates but also on the actions of chesical carcinogens, that conflict
with the hypothesis that snoking is a cause of lung cancer,

This paper is based on an extensive study of the review of the crucial date
‘Dearing on smoking and health issues conducted over the past three years at
Washington University. A conplete report of this study may be obtained by
writing to the principal dnvestigetor. ~

1005094573

