AMENIVAN prec Py et

INDUSTRIAL IN A GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT aie
HYGIENE P.O, Box 8890, $45 White Pond Dr., Akron, exX________
CONFERENCE OW azn, A) ETS ATHC UD) &

Sat} lal? Cah, Haag 25190 4

‘Sesston BF" frorant Fikeerlogy IE; Soy lion's t haatlirs 3 aire
JHE DESIGN OF FIELD-COMSTRUCTED VIRTUAL IMPACTORS USED FOR SAMPLING AEROSOLS
Lethaber, E.2., Lehtivakt, H.}, and Wiliske, K., Institute of Environmental
Health, Kettering Laboratory, University of Gincinnati, 9223 Balen Ave.,
Cincinnati, OH 45267-0086,

As size differentiation of aerosols becowes increasingly {aportant for health
dasesement and exposure contrel, industrial hygienists rely increasingly on
Fealvtine meesurencnt instruments such as optical parcicle counters (OPC). Due
fo the preponderence of small particles end the vary lov concentration of large
particles in typical field amvironpents, OFC muasurenmts can suffer significant
alieperticle coincidence arrors and large-particle statistical error

Elisinating coincidence exrors and improving statistical accuracy by usti
Siptual fepactors is particularly useful in filter testing and clean room

asurenents.

Using 35mm cassettes and a0ts of thres appropriately sized hypodernic needles
we have developed vireual impactors that are easily fleld-conscructed. The
yer affective virtual impactors can be used to optimize the relative
nsitivity of eptical particle counters. We have evaluated evo such virtual
fmpectors: One waz sized for use vith a very low flov OPC, the PHS Laser Aerosol
Seer. Ie multiplied the nuabar concentration of 0.7 and 2pm poly-styrene
letex particles by a factora of two and 20 respectively. Another virtual
impactor was sized for a higher flow OPC, the TSI Aerodynamic Particle Sizer.
‘This appropriately sized vircual impactor Increesed the concentration of 0.7 and
fam lavex particles by factors of one and four respectively. Bath of these
Virtual Smpactors multiplied the muabar concentration of particles in poly-
Gispersed cora of] and salt aeroxols, by similar amounts, Detailed, yet simple
{nstructions on how to construct « virtual impactor with comson Laboratory item:
while adhering to critical design pareneters are presented.

———

1. On leave from the Technical Research Center of Finland, Tempere, Finland

ot erg tie on
area vee
rr

|!

nd G9REGLLE:

prefer 1 platform [ ] poster [ Ino preference

ciay: Cincinnati Biase OH Bp RST
Phone: (513 $58-1720 Fax: 613) 559-1756
_Afftinon (for program mailing porposea? sumot zo i
C1AIHA LX ACGIH ( ] Both { JOther (ALL ABSTRACTS MUST BE RECEIVED BY OCTOBER 21, 1900.
.
