PROJECT MOMBER: 1620

reeEGT TITLE: Elect rophysiologicel Studies
PROJECT LEADER: FF, Gullotta
WRITTEN BY: o. 8. Hayes

PERIOD COVERED: April, 1988

A. Qhlective: To develop methods by which to objectively and reliably
Sbissace human responses te cigarettes, smoke constituents and

tobacco flavorants.

B. Resulta:

Cognitive NERP Study

problens continue to be encountered wich she Of odorant
sreeery syste of the olfactonater delaying the onset of
eenicive HERP experiments. The problens appear to be related
CORE new birbinal wwitching device. Spon stimulation, (Lia.
Sectehing of the aizstreans), 2 pulse (Lf. + change in airflow)
reese retable in both of the olfactasster sisFer sre. There

ae ete ng detectable chenge fn Flow during ‘the switching of
mist veene in otder co asture areifact free event-related
fotancial recordings. Additionally, ‘odorant is being released
{nto the airstreap during the Tater.atimulus-intexval (ISI).
into ee indicating @ problem vith rhe switching ‘and/or plumbing
foreher [feceonster. When correctly operartobs the olfactometer
of tna release @ controlled anount, of oderany nto « clean
sho a gad then rapidly be flushed out. To date, these
etoblena are avaiting investixation bY ‘J. Washington. Until
Provlre corrected, experinents employing the olfactoneter
eannot be conducted,

optinal methods for quancifying cognitive NERPA continua to be
guplored. To date, it appears thee ‘eS1 ie neither powerful not
et Cnough to handle the extensive aneure of data generated
etiog a principal copponent snalysis- ‘The BMDP software
Gppeaes promising, but it 15 al¢o Very, slow and would require en
appetghe batching of the data to the Unix system, OU
SNavistical/graphical aoftware packases continue to be evaluated
Saar e uciiiey in conduccing principal component: analyses and
other aultivariate analyses.

plana: Once the sbove problens vite the olfactomater 2)
Bade" gg, plans are to conduct pLlot experiments tos 3) teat the
Cperacion of the new system ond. 2) determine the optimal parameters
spare vieietacion of the Late positivity OF the NERP. Following the
for tinene of these objectives, cogntstve Qiscrimination experl-
fart comparing natural and synthecis penthol will begin.

bLgTSPOO0Z
