EDITORIALS

ROT tT
Tits mie
Prolected by coz.
aw (Tite 17 U.S. code).

Smoking or health
in the '80s?

‘Although the magnitude of the health problem caused
‘by smoking has been repeatedly documented — for ex-
ample, in the reports of the World Health Organization
(WHO), che United States surgeon general “and the
Royal College of Physicians of London — the serious-
ness of the problem is not yet fully appreciated.

‘A conference, “Smoking or Health in the "80s", was
held in May L981 in Toronto under the auspices of the
‘Ontario Councit of Health. It was jointly organized by
the four statutory foundations of Ontario — the Addic-
tion Research Foundation of Ontario, the Ontario Can-
cer Treatment and Research Foundation, the Ontario
‘Heart Foundation and the’ Ontario Mental ‘Health
Foundation ~~ with assistance from the Ontario Min-
istry of Health and the nonstatutory voluntary health
sociations, in particular the Ontario Lung Associa-
tion.

The conference was aimed at health care workers,
vescarchers. politicians and granting agencies. The pa-
pers were published in the September/Qctober 1981
issue of the Canadian Journal of Public Health.
Richard Doll, from the United Kingdom, estim-
aurd that at least 15% to 20% of all premature deaths
in developed countries are the result of smoking, but
the real figure could well be greater. Now that women
are smoking as much as men this toll is evident in
both sexes. Recent work indicates that nonsmokers are
also affected adversely by tobacco smoke in the en-
vironment.

Much of the conference was devoted to discussing
measures for controlling the smoking epidemic, Tt
might be argued that Canada has done reasonably well.
Many smokers have given up the habit, cigarettes de-
livering less tax, cicotine and carbon monoxide have
become available, and smoking has become less s0-
ciatly acceptable.” Also, Canadian work on smoking

“From the department of preventive medicine and biostatistics,
University of Toronto, tthe department of statistics, faculty,

of mathematics. University of Waterloo, and ithe

insite of biomedical engineering, University of Toronto,
and clinical pharmacology program. Addiction Research
Foundation of Ontario

Reprint. requests to: Dr. William F, Forbes. Department of
Halisties, Faculty of mathematics, University of Waterloo,
Waterloo, Ont. NIL 3GI

Mary JANE AsHLEY,* MD
Wituam F, Forses,t PH, D sc
Richarb C, FRECKER,t MD, PHD

and health has received recognition; for example, the
University of Waterloo and the Addiction Research
Foundation of Ontario have been designated as WHO
collaborating centres for work on smoking and health.
On the other hand, more tobacco is consumed per
capita in Canada than in most other countries. As
well, the various legislative actions that have been
laken in Scandinavian countries make the Canadian
effort in this area seem tess than satisfactory. That
there is a relatively large number of tobacco growers
in Ontario presents additional difficulties that do not
appear to have been addressed with notable success,

Tnevitably the Canadian accomplishments must be
seen in a world-wide context; in this regard the general
guidelines are clear, Explicit recommendations have
been made in the 1979 report of the WHO expert
committee on smoking controt that have been endorsed
by the WHO and numerous governmental and health,
organizations in many countries? The report recom-
mends that:

@ Non-smoking should be regarded as the normal so-
‘bebaviour, and that all action which can promote the
jevelopment of this altitude be taken:

@ There should be 2 total probit
tobacco promotion;

@ Promotion of the export of tobscca and tobacco,
products should be discouraged, Tobacco growing and
manufacturing industries should be progressively reduced
in size 9s rapidly as possible; °

© Governments should recognize the serious dangers
for smokers in certain industrial oceupations, and develop
special programmes to eradicate smoking from these in
dustries, introducing legislation where necessary. The sym-
exgism observed between smoking and certain occupations
implies the need for careful monitoring in industries
where toxic inhalation is a problem, and indicates. the
need for research in this area: and

@ Upper limits should be established far Appropriate
1p products of cigarettes. These limits (currently for
tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide) should be progressive
ly lowered as rapidly as possible, Every tobacco packet
should contain a health warning and information on emis:
sion levels.

ion of all forms of

Generally, these recommendations have received
more and more attention. They are consistent with the
overall strategy being developed by the WHO, which
specifically lists as major sims the promotion of Tife-

CMA IOURNALINOVEMBER IS, 1981/VOL. 125

C9

1017

6ELZ.0 F089
