ee |

Jeounet rime: _Entonologteal Research
PROJzGT NUMBER: © 1101

‘yRoJECT LEADER: D. L, Faustint.

PERIOD COVERED: September, 1987

CIGARETTE BEETLE (C8) PUYSIOLOGLCAL STUDIES
-

Qhsactive: To conduct research investigations designed to produce
sascta that lead to the control of the CB growth and development.

Reaulta: Nethoprene treated polypropy-one filu was aequited fcon
Aeuaites. ‘the film vas treated at 160, G00, 4000, and 20000 ppm
pethoprese.* :

Methoprene in cigarettes nade with Kabac® created tobacco vas found
fe be 3,5 and 3.4 gpm. Tha non-Kabac® treated cigarettes were made
ee non-treated tobacco (controls), Sumples of treated and non-
Treated cigarettes wero submitted for smoke panel evaluations.?

‘The study oa the sublethal offects of methoprene have shown #
se scthon in adalt emergence {n those tobaccos treated with matho-
Prone vhen compared to the contzols, Tho adults that emerged from
The created tobaccos were placed on non-treated tobacco to atudy
the effects on the vSability on the FL generation.*

The resulzs of the bulk disinfestaticn to two tobacco warehouses
seine CD, have been conpleted. It teck two days to reach a CO:
Sones of’ 350 which was held for fiva days. A total of 10-be vas
Teguived to dages both warehouses to che threshold Limtt value.
Gad hundred percent oortalicy of all Life stages was found in the
Tosects planted within the warehouse prior Ce treatment. Thin
Lphoare Go be a visble alvernative to phosphine fumigation espe-
‘and deactivation and
c

Giapoaal concerns. A apectal zeport is being prepared and ¢ pai
Siaclosure has been submitted. 4

plans: To continue to: evaluate the ovieidal effects of nechoprene
TLDS d filme; eigatette packages will be covered with the film and
Tiponed to CB fore weeks. Cigerecte infestation wit} be corre:
sees Eo pack seal end che cone, of treated filma. Fine vill bo
‘iloates using a porrl dish cast where CB eggs vill be exposed
Gkevcely to the [tin aubjectively evaluate gethoprena treated
qeeccess determine the sublethal effects of xethoprent on fltal
Generations; furura tants are planned to uso GO, in perinstar

age warehouses.

1, Faustin, D. L, Hono to Dr. B. B. Sanders, Metheprene Treated
Polypropylene Flia - Update. Saptenber 23, 1987.

2, Lehuan, R. M, Norabook No. 8519, pp. 23.

3, Minor, H. F. Fetabook No. 6539, pp, 9-10.

2Tepproo0z
