haty

ded,

;sompounds to «the tobacco vas . observed to foliow an exponential

-In. this: report, the migration of nicotine at aifferent

Migration of Nicotine in Blended Cigarettes
Submitted to Tobacco Science by: R. M. Stepnovski

Abstract:

The migration of nicotine from tobacco leaf to reconstituted leaf

“Wwt—hegcteen studied. Experimental cigarettes consisting of 75% leaf

tobacco and 25% RL were made, and the nicotine content of the RL
vas measured periodically for one month. The nicotine content in
the RL increased with time due to gas phase diffusion from the
tobacco lear. E

INTRODUCTION

Mépicotine content of rpcgnakituted leaf;or RL, has been a
ag Gh-Gi“interebt TeGent ly” The objective of this study vas to
examine cigarette couponents, particularly the leaf and the RL,
to determine if nicotine content changea during aging.

aye

a

hank Ae Vere | ecglng te 2 morn limaetifnd
Wjedtine ts “Sttagdriges (54+ IoasZyol sal tat —conpogna ea FO
a te~arefusd—should be ardete other wolitile

compounds. Volatile flavor compounds added to tobacco in
cigaret: © _migrata,: The migration of menthol, in

rticuiar, has..been : studied .;A_study-ofmentholated
‘Cigatettes;-skewod-30% of thé menthol “oFiginally, aaded to tebaceo
migrated to the filter after one month. ti ¢ 1,2)

The migration of flavor compounds added to the filters of
cigarettes has been studied, The tobacco and filters vere
analyzed over a tvo month period. Migration of the flavor

timp...dependence. First-order kinetics, vere assumed, and rate 2
constants vere. determined. (3)

temperatures was studied. Tvo sets of cigarettes vero made,

consisting of 75% leaf tobacco and 25% RL. The cigarettes vere E
then stored at different temperatures and sanpied periodically. ays
In addition, the nicotine content was aeasured at different

stages of the manufacturing process.

EXPERIMEWSAE
Cigarettes for this stuay vere oade in the Loriilare pilot plant,

Filtered cigarettes vere manufactured, packed, and then storedS

under constant temperature and humidity. They vere  sanplodd
periodically by being slit open and pisces of RL picked out®

Manually, using tweozors. Enough Ri for 2 one gram sunpios was

Picked, ‘vnich required about 90 cigarettes. The samples vores

arsed prior to analysis. Nicotine was determined by a photonetric™

method using a TRAACS 800 autonated analyzer. the goplicate _ cls
samples usually agreed vithin a fev-nundredtha aie Bikeone cor

Ricotine, All results are reported on a dry weight’ basis. Jotel Se
Feducing sugara and nitrogen percentage vere alse moamirad, .

Ji

