PROJECT NUNBER: 1736

PROJECT TITLE : Analytical Sensory Correlations
B. W. Good

Joly 1986

An exploratory experiment to determine menthol dalivery in che
non-burning cigarette, FAVOR, vas conducted by using the gas phase
sampling system. The composite of the first four puffs were
analyzed for three freshly opened FAVOR cigarettes. Quantitation
was by external standard sade up in methylene chloride, which was
introduced into the sampling loop. The levels of menthol vere
23, 34, GL g/puft respectively representing an averaged delivery of
the first four puffs. We made no attempt to measure menthol in
puff-by-puff mode, tor did we determine how many puffs were
needed to exhaust the menthol delivery.

B. Sclaral Quantitation by LC/MS

The sensitivity of our LC/MS thermospray interface waa improved
significantly by several instrument modifications. The instrumene
waa calibraced routinely with a standard mixture of known
masses up to 1000 amu without any difficulty, By using &
atandard of sclaral, the detection vas 20 ng with S/N better than
S:1 by single fon eonitoring of m/e 251 in the negative ion mode
with Linearity extending at least two orders of magnitude. The
determination of aclaral in oriental tobacce 1s currently {n
progress.

c. 8 it

SCF extracted cigarettes made of 1008 bright, 100% burle;
umcased bland were comparad with respective controls by analyzing

the organic gas phase and TPM components, In summary, the SCF
process reduced significantly the delivery of cembrenoids, solanone,
Rieotine, 2-vinylpyridine and to « lesser degree, che

negescignatrienones, and the pyridines in the mainstream smoke. The
gas phase composition remained unchanged by the extraction.

D. are

Cigarettes with lactic acid and their contvol (from De. R. Fenner)
were fingerprinted by TPM fractionation to see the effect of the
SoId on the delivery of the TPH components. Based on a single
anslysis for the control and the semple, no apparent dt fferencesy
were found.

£. LEF-LIA Seud

Cigarettes containing 10% methionine on LIF-ITA were smoked and
the TPM was fractionated. The base fraction gave dimethyl
disulfide-3-(mechylthio)-1-propanamine {methionine decarboxylation
product), S-methyl ester of butanethoic acid, a series of S-alky!
Unidazoles and a series of S-alkyl N-substituted pyrroles, Other
compounds identified included pyridine, alkylpysidines, and alkyl
pytazines.

S660ES80!
