TDecec dived OP ae CEwCR Renee Compre C72,
Cefy eat Bie B

COMMENTS ON OCCUPATIONAL CANCER SURVEYS IN .
‘THE UNITED STATES

Wc HUBER, MO,

HL AIX of tie Cancerigenc
‘Health Servi ig theese
rinagenie agent
ew
des

tudirs Sertion a: the Uniied States Public
St ty investiga: exposures to reengrived ear
< sean -0 detec: ame addins carcinogenic agsits nt presently
fen: third, 19 asst state slepaeiments oi health ur of infec: bygiene te
lop sdenwate enethnds for conned puesid uf tke Rese wo oljevines, To
acermptish the Inter puryose, the Lute? Stites Dubie Melty Service has wade
srs y the Stes of New York, Neve jersey, Ohio, Caior'a, Conneticut,

Patsy hana, oud Colca, and ent ole has ated ina ada acy
in those stares atere eecxpational amor

surveys are i progeess, These gras have

4 wasituus divation of Circe years Tt ats here: the pctiee to suggest dtfrent

sates e= study ince ilereot states fu onde to learn Wich rll are the

tnost sila eronomical i partie for adesante shy ni the problens involve, :
ou have just sr Ye, Mayets esi the metho that ha bern aoa in New
York State, wich is mariy wth Dased iter of + las number of
canoe waliits at = sate hospital, You have alas Heat "e. ertill desert the
amethod adsl in New Jerse, which is & mortality
Of esth eesti ates ot all cancer tases report
Je Odo eed morbidity cel mart

hawk Rese! on analysis :
el x the state wich a selected pao !
iy procedraes ate cing apie’ wo the stwly af
atlas Isom weected. dusts, ling in par fats aheing from pave dd
Sin seers: The Qato program ilsteates tied tse 0! apyrone, fering Sewn
thaoe of Ye Neaw Yarks ai New jerseys
Used in Mor

rs. A (oerth type of approach is heing 1
His and Veloralo, tn lw ler exe sates haeresteeaters ja the ones '
tion of a lung-eauree i

2roow ait ywllavew aud other eapasures iucideet to
Reg and sweltig stes bvng arsenal ac ragactive eaten. there tates,
teeefore:prograns hve bee cece othe uly oi une pita type else,
cant log eaniet. ‘The methods ws jie Montana live bee to wll deat
setorates af Ing eter

the state in an elfort
rater ix these counties alee
Fontes wasie there utt 10
su opetations, To California a euy of haigeaner machi is iin ronda
2288 deerme yas val fetes of cceuparin sd alts, epee sn

teure husher the cider of this tomor io Len ge
sroching oncrations aro conte a con:pared with

seine yesetsh a mang ofthe Cancer Prevention Cactitee i ew York en
Pee 8, 1St

ir Mc s Chit of the Cascrgeis Sts Sesion, Cer Comin Brac, Seton
Concer tite, United Stoes Peblr Aesth Serrce

ne

