“CHARGE MoMBER: 2108”

Bones Agree?

* PROJECT TITLE: © Filter Development

+ PROJECT LEADER: = W. A. Nichols

PERIOD COVERED: February, 1982

1, PVA ENCAPSULATION (R. A. Thesing)

Tn conjunction with New Products, work continued in exploring flavor
release mechanisms with PVA. Filters were produced with high nenthol
loading on the Plugwrap and down the center of the filter. Cigarettes ~
have been made and wit! be tested by CI.

Further work in’ optimizing the formulation has resulted {na
better understanding of the optimal flavor/PVA ratios. Low viscosity

formslattons (e.9.. spray) produce lower response. This may be due vo
the longer drying time required.

In addition to menthol, other flavors are currently being investigated,
Present candidates include: enon, diacetyl, and tobacco-ltke Flavors®
Hork will continue here with further aging studies, relative humidity, and .
Subjective response in cigarettes to be completed.

TL, MENTHOL APPLICATION (6. 1. Patron)

Malfunction of the fluid pump controller on the Rothmans Mark 111
Applicator caused a delay in the planned test to apply menthol on foil. The
defective part was sent to Rothmans of Canada and its replacement was re- .
cetved and installed. Electronic recalibration indicated that the machine rh ae
1s working properly. The machine was calibrated to measure the flow rate er
against the potentiometer flow setting. A measurement of the concentration
of combustible gas (Ethanol) in the afr was found to be around 15%,
A test to determine the transfer efficiency of menthol from pack foll a
to cigarettes at three application levels will begin the second week of ~
March, woot

fii,” TIT. TOBACCO EXTRUSEON (W. A. Nichols}

To further evaluate loss of rod firmness during smoking, samples were
produced with various binders to improve moisture resistance. Hydroay-
ethylcellulose had insufficient bindering actton and foamed materia? could
not be produced. Carboxymetiylcellulose alone ar in combination with hydroxy
Prapylcellulose foamed well and were firmer than previous starch formulations
during smoking. in order to stabilize the extruded rod, a rod transport
device was used to convey the material away from the die and to apply air
Coling. Que to insufficient heat transfer and rod softness, size stability
could not be achieved. The system is being modified ta vacuum size t0 product,

LE Melee

WA. Nichols

4TCTOROOOT

WAN/ lad
