CONTROL OF PESTICIDE USAGE ON TOBACCO IN ZIMBABWE

JA SHEPHEAD
Saar Ciop Prevecaan Raseaten Otkces,
‘Tobacco Resasron Godse, P.O. Box 1909, narae, Zimbabwe.

INTRODUCTION

Zumbabwe ranks thd ia the word as a
fobacea exaoner. supplying about 38% of ine
‘word market in 1989 ang 1800 # produced 253
865 tonnes of fue-cured tobacco, of which 38%
38 exported to abou 80 coureries. Tobacco &
Zimbabwe's large! individual earner of oregn
eurency. navng contributed 2.$1 617 mation
{about 24%) 10 the counury’s expon eamings 1n
1969 and 1990 (Tobacce indusary Councd, 1990
and 1981},

‘The anti-smoking campaign, paniculaly inne
Geveloped word. Aas engendered a great deal O|
fsmotion ang has made tne tobacco
manulacturers acuiely aware ol pesticides and
theie fesidues. as ney can be implicated as a0
ddhucnal health ak io me consumer. Apan fom
4 reputation for procucing good quality and
mature sivles of tobacco, Zimbabwe also has @
Fepuiation tor producing tobacco that Is vary iow
in pesticide retusa.

PESTICIDE TESTING PROCEDURE {Figure 1)

When a new product is oHered (0 one of ihe
FOP protechan depacments at the Tobacco:
Reseach Board (TRB) for testing. th
manutacturers wit suppty data trom thei testa
which vall be studied 10 ensure that the product
has a teascnable chance of being used. The
Rew product may ba cheaper or salar to apply.
ft may ba iess persistent and be less Hkely To
cause environmental problems. it may be
atlectve against a wader range of pasts oF
diseases than inose currenily recommended, of
againer 4 new pest or disease. We may be
ierested in a new chemical 10 avoid giving 3
Monopoly ta one chemical company and, by
‘widening. our ‘ot equivalent pesticides,
‘easing possible suppy problems.

We are someumes asked why, # we ate
aiways looking for a new and more eftecive
chemicals, we do nia relinquish the ald ones, We
Geneinty do retain some chemicals that have bean,
fecommendad tor a long ume, but hat is because
thay aré stil very elective and we hava not been
able to fing anything that is mote atfective and

safer 10 replace them, The soi Surmgant EDS has
been recommended for 40 years, whie
imetnoate, copper oxychloride and dinocap are
‘sil cacommended ater at least 20, years.
However, oves the same 40 years the TRE nas
withdrawn ke appraval tor just over 20
agrochemicals,

naiaty, the new product may da tested
against curanily recommended pashcides in the
held, greenhouse oF laboraiovy 10 get some iden
Of fs ettacliveness and the raies at which it 1s
likely 10 be used. A new insacticige, for ingiance,
‘will usually ba screened In ine fabormtery 10
determine the concentration that kils 50% of the
‘target pests {(LC,,) and ta find te dose response.

N the intial tests show promise, then ine
pesticide wil be tested in the field for al least 1wo
years and sometimes much longer. These trials
wal be. designed, usualy comparing
thee or more rates of the new pesticide against
4 recommended standard to assets oltectiventess
{nthe field and to see i thare are any signs of
phytotoxiciy. The tials wid be reaped and
Qraced to ensure inal there is no reduction in
Yield or qualty of the cured lobacca, Samples
‘re usually taken for analysit by the Analytical
Chemistry depariment to determine what faridues
ate present.

Once the product has been shown to be
Successful, a tal is Wreated at tie rate Ukety Lo be
fecommanded and, depending on the chemical,
a ether twica and live-imes or live- ang tan-imes
Ihe fikely rate, Tnese wil aleo be an untreated
contol. This trial wil be checked for
Bhytotoxicity, and aher curing and gracing,
‘Samples are taken for residua analysis, Such &
{tial provides adcitional information on the effects
of accidental overdosing. Provided the residue
levels are acceptable (Appendix A}, me tobacco
i mace ie unfllared cigarenes. These ate
coded and paired, so that each treaumert is
compared wah a conuol or isalf, and inen
smoked by panels of smokers trom tha tobacco
companies $0 determing whaler ine new
pesticide imparts any aroma taint in the smoke oF
any taste Lalu in the inhaled smoke.

8
E
2
a
