CTR PROGRESS REPORT
{Do not submit this form with a FIRST RENEWAL)

Grant number_3183 Progeess Period from 1/1/94 to:

12/31/94

Name of Investigator: ponna King, Ph.0.

Title of Original Grant: Regulation of expression of a reinducible beta globin
gene in transgenic mice.

Abstract of the Specific Aims as statod in the or 2
Sheep and goats can offer significant contributions to our understanding of globin gene
switching through the course of development. Information gained from the understanding of

their BF globin gene regulation might be applied to therapies for human hemoglobinopathies.

‘The proposed reseasch plan is to identify and study the important control elements in transgenic
mice.

‘The ultimate long-range goal is to engineer a human fetal globin gene (Ay or Fy) to.
respond to induction by anemic stress in adult humans. At this stage it is impossible to predic!
‘whether this might involve a few well-calculated poim mutations or a massive genetic
engineering effort. However, it is already clear that the potential benefits to individuals suffering
from thalassentias and sickle-cell disease could be enormous,

‘Two major specific aims will guide the research:
a) Identify cis-acting regulatory elements that serve to control the developmental
timing and the reindicibility of the sheep 8° gene.
b) Test various combinations and multiples of these elements t0 achieve the
greatest degree of control of the reindvetion response.

LList any publications (author, title and journal) resulting from the current CTR award
that contain a printed acknowl

For manuscripts, the designation “ia press” means you have a preprinl: olherwise use.
"accepted for publication by ....", submitted for publication” or “in preparation”,

Do not list publications that do nos acknowledge CTR support.

D, King, R.J. Wall, V.G. Pursel, C.E. Rexroad, Jr. and $.G. Shapiro. Developmental regulation
‘of the sheep juvenile B globin gene in transgenic mice. (in preparation for J. Biol. Chem.)

Report of Progress {attach to this form no more than four (4) pages, please.)
(Staple separately. Do not stapte or affix this CTR Progress Report to the Application Form.)

BA PROG) DOC

