ATTACH MEET
DRAFT--DO NOT QUOTE OR CITE A

a high degree of certainty. The conclusive evidence of the dose-rel

<a os —- é

ETS 9s a known framan tung carcinogen, or “Group A" carcinogen under US. EPA's carcinogen

classification system, In addition, this document concludes that the Overall results af 30
epidemiologic studies on tang cancer and passive smoking (Chapter 3), using spousal smoking as a
surrogate of ETS exposure for female neves-smokers, similarly justify a Group A classification.
‘The weight-of-evidenoe analyses for the noncancer respiratory effects are based primarily
on a review of epidemiologic studies (Chapter 7). Most of the endpoints examisied are respiratory
disorders in children, where parental smoking is used as z surragate of ETS expasure. For the

noncancer respiratory effects ia nonsmoking adults, most studies used spousal smoking as an
exposure serrogate, A cansel association was concluded to exist for a number of respiratory
disorders where there was sufficient consistent evidence for a biotogically-plausible association
with ETS that could not be explained by bias, confounding, or chance. The fact that the database
consists of human evidence from actual environmental exposure ievals'gives a high degree of
confidence in this conclusion, Where there was suggestive but inconclusive evidence of causality,
‘as was the cate for asthma induction in children, ETS was concludes to be a risk factor for that
endpoint. Where data were inconsistent or inadequate for evaiuation of zn association, as for
infections in childron, no conclusions.

acute upper respiratory tract infections and acute middle ear
were drawn,

‘This report has also attempted (o provide estimates of the extent of the public health
impact, where appropriate, in terms of eumbers of ETS-attributable cases in nonsmoking
subpopulations. Unlike for qualitative hazard identification assessments where information fram
many sources adds to the confidence in a weight-of -evidence conclusion, for quantitative risk
assessments the usefulness of studies usually depends on how closely the study population
resembles nonsmoking segments of the general population. For tung cancer estimates among U.S.
nonsmokers, the substantial epidemiology database of ETS and lung cancer among U.S. female
never-amokers was considered to provide the most appropriate information. From the large
ates were calculated and used fn

number of similarly designed studies, pooled relative risk ext
the derivation of the population risk estimates. ‘Tho large aumber of studies available, the
senerally consistent resuits, and the condition of actual environmental levels of exposure increase
the conCidence in these estimates. Evon with these conditions, however, uncertainties remain,

such 9s in the use of questionnaires and current biomarker measurements to estimate past

zzz E0207

12 05/31/92
RENZEL
DRAFT
