CHARGE NUMBER: 1905
PROJECT TITLE: Improved Semiworks Operations
PROJECT LEADER: J. F. Sherwood

PERIOD COVERED: January, 1981

OATE OF REPORT: February 10, 1981

Primary Processing

A. WS Application

Subjective testing by the Flavor Development group showed test cigarettes
Produced with a WS dispersion to be subjectively equivalent to control cigarettes
made with a WS solution. However, to obtain the target WS delivery in smoke oF
0.35 mg/cigt. it was necessary to apply 1.3 times the amount of WS with the slurry
as with the solution. Photomicrographs showed the test filler to have distinct WS
particles on the surface as opposed to a glazed WS coating on the control filler.
The distinct WS particles were more readily removed by the maker dust collection
system than the glazed WS coating. A visit is in progress to Gaulin Corporation
to evaluate particle size reduction equipment to reduce the WS particle size in
dispersions and, hopefully, reduce WS losses.

B. Cut Width Study If

A second study was completed to determine the effect of cut width on filler
and cigarette properties. The results showed no evidence that cut width over the
range of 20-45 cuts/inch (CPI) affected filler CV or cigarette finmess. Sieve
analyses showed that as cut width increased the filler longs fraction also increased.
Analytical data showed CO delivery to decrease as cut width increased. Regression
analysis of the data predicted that CO delivery on a mg/g smoked basis could be
veduted by 10% by cutting tobacco at 20 CPT instead of at 30 CPI, as fs the current
practice,

C. Effect of OV on Cutting

Analysis of the CY results from the third test in the program to determine the
effect of tobacco temperature and OV at cutting on filler CY and steve fractions
was completed. In this test, OV levels ranging from 15.7 to 31.6% were investigated
using one temperature level of about 80°F. Temperature was not varied in this test
because the first two tests showed Tittle or no advantages to changing temperature.
Regression analysis of the equilibrium CY data from filler samples taken exiting
the final blend silo indicated that the optimum OV level at cutting was 25.7%.

This represents a 1.7 cc/l0g increase in CV over cutting at the norwal target OV
of 208. Sieve analyses of the filler from this test are in progress.

D. Shred Length Study.

An experiment was completed for the Tobacco Utilization group to determine the
effect of filler strand Tength on cigarette properties and making efficiency, In
this experiment, Marlboro filler without ES and ET was screened in the MC to pro-
duce filler having a longs fraction of about 80%. ES and ET were also screened

ecEbTeezz02
