CHARGE NUMBER: 1708

PROJECT TITLE: Physical and Chanical Properties of Tobacco
PERTOD COVERED: February 3-28, 1979

PROJECT LEADER: C. B. Hoetzel

DATE OF REPORT: March 9, 1979

STRESS RELAXATION OF FILLER (B. C. LaRoy}

Using the servohydrauiic Instron testing machine, we have begun to
investigate the mechanical (stress-strain-time) behavior of bright filler.
An interesting early observation is that, when uncased E-55 filler is held
in a cytinder at constant density, the restoring force against the piston
often "relaxes" in a stepwise fashion with time. Similarly, when a constant
force is maintained on the piston, the filler bed density often decreases
("creeps") with time in wetl defined steps.

In the constant density case, we have been able to remove the cylinder
walls after initial compression of the filler. This has little effect on
the stress-strain properties of the bed. In particular, the stepwise relax-
ation of restoring force is sti1] noted--thus it is not due to wall effects.

These stepwise results are similar to those noted by Irving in force
transmitted through a filler bed. It seems likely that the steps result
from physical mavenent of the shred-shred contact points within the bed. If
this is the case, then shred-to-shred effects may contribute significantly
to filling power.

MECHANICAL PROPERTIES OF FILLER (D. A. Full)

An optical shaft encoder has been coupled to a counterweighted cylinder
volune apparatus in order to provide a continuous digital readout of CV, with
exactly 20 counts per cm. With an electronic digital output available in
binary form (12 bits}, it should be easy to feed time-dependent C¥ data to
the central computer or to a local data acquisition systen in the near future.
The electronics for transforming the encoder outputs (a pair of square waves,
1/4 cycle apart) into a form suitable for the up/down counter was @ custom
Job, to provide 4 counts per cycle, which is the maximum possible.

MOISTURE STUDIES (J. C. Crump, 111)

Data has been obtained for the kinetjcs of water sorption by cellulose
(paper containing 25% cotton fiber) at 24°C taken from 30% RH to 60% RH, The
data has been modeled and compared with similar data obtained for bright and
buriey tobaccos. As reported last month, the rate constants for sorption of

ETLogFez0g
