Genetic Isolation and Reconstitution of Brain Potassium Channel Complexes
PL: James S, Trimmer, March °° 996

Since the submission of my grant » 995, we have made significant

progress towards cur two-hybrid ame" "= v2.1 K channel in mammalian
brain. Dr, K, Nakahica hi thd" proteins that interact with the
cytoplasmic amino terminus (20 ‘ovo previously characterized

neuronal proteins of unknown

The first protein is Ab ow? 1 guanine nucleotide binding
protein (G protein) with a can \ domain, We have found 2
strong interaction between ARD via the two-hybrid approach.
We have expressed ARD] and t ‘ mammalian cells, and have
found stong intermolecular asso ty co-immunoprecipitate the

(wo proteins. We have also fount
<dual label immunofluorescence cot a
the effects of ARD1 co-expressior

mammalian cells, we are especiall,

v2.1 in wansfected cells by
akoshi is now investigating
2.1 currents in transfected

‘ditions known (0 activate

other G protein subtypes. We are’ ine if ARDI and Kv2,.1
and associated and c¢-localized in m _ high levels in the brain,
and in peripheral tissues, at present it cet

‘The second protein Dr, Naka __-cwraciig with Kv2.1 is CDR34 (Fumeaux et
al,, 1989; PNAS 86:2873), a prowein _ wy sera'from patients with the neurological autoimmune

sorder parancoplastic cerebellar dege aewtt6ii (PCD). ‘This protein is expressed only in Purkinje neurons
in the cerebellum, cells which also express high levels of Kv2.1. The staining patter observed with sera
from PCD patients is identical to that observed with anti-Kv2.| antibodies. The function of CDR34 is at
present unknown. We are taking a parallel approach to that described for ARID with CDR34,

‘Dr Nakahira has also isolated a sroall number ofpotentially interesting novel brain cDNAs encoding
proteins that interact with the N-terminus of Kv2.1 in the yeast two-hybrid system, We are currently
working towards co-expressing these cDNAs in transfected mammalian cells to determine if they associate
with full length Kv2.1, and have any effect on the distribution or Functional characteristics of Kv2.] K+
channels in these cells,

Since the submission of my grant application one publication that acknowledges support from the Council
listed as submitted has been published:

Nakahira, K., Shi, G., Rhodes, K, J,, snd J. S. Trimmer. (1996), Association of K+ channel Be
subunits with a-subunits, J. Biol, Chera, 271:7084-7089.

‘Two publications that acknowledge suppor from the Council that were listed us submitied are now accepted
for publication:

Shi. G,, Nakahira, KHammond, S., Schechter, L. E, Rhodes, K, J., and J. $, Trimmer.
(1996). KvB2 B-subunits promore K+ channel surface expression through effects early in biosynthesis.
Neuron (in press).

Rhodes, K. J., Barrezueta, N. X., Monaghan, M. M., Bekele-Arcuti, Z., Matos, M. F., Nakahira,
K., Nawoschik, S., Schechter, L. E., and J. S. Trimmer. (1996). Voltage-gated K+ channel B-subunit
polypeptides : expression and distibution of KvBt and Kv2 in adult cat brain. J, Neurosci. (in press)

“Two other manuscripts that acknowledge support from the Council bave been submitted for publication,
Bekele-Arcusi, Z., Matos, M. F., Manganas, L., Sirassle, B. W., Monaghan, M. M., Rhodes, K.
J. and J. 8. Trimmer. Generation and characterization of subtype-specific monoclonal antibodies 0 K+
channel o.- and B-subunit polypeptides. Submitted to Newrapharmacology.
Rhodes, K. J., Strassle, B. W., Monaghan, M. M., Bekele-Arcuri, Z., and J. $. Trimmer. KvB1
and Kvf2 associate and co-ocaize wih specific Kv1 a-subonits in mammalian brain, Submited io
leuron

