Attorney Work Product

CONFIDENTIAL

Toxicology Summary

Lovage Oil (B30)

An acute toxicity assessment of Lovage Oil was performed by a
single intraperitoneal administration to Spraque-Dawley rats of
various doses in a carboxymethyl cellulose vehicle followed by a
14 day observation period. LD,, values of 374 mg/kg (260-537

95% confidence limits) for malé8, 465 mg/kg (282-768) for females,
and 406 mg/kg (305-540) for combined sexes were determined

The mutagenic potential of Lovage Oil was assessed in an in vitro
bacterial assay employing a battery of Ames’ mutant Salmonella
strains capable of detecting both frameshift (strains TAI537,
TA1538 and TA99) and base pair-substitution (strains TA1535 and
TA100) mutations. No mutagenic activity was detected in a range
of doses from 0.01 to 2.50 wl Lovage Oil per plate (in triplicate:
both in the presence and absence of a metabolic activation system
consisting of an Aroclor~induced rat liver homogenate fraction
(891, This result provides evidence suggesting that neither
Lovage Oil nor its metabolites are likely to pose a mutagenic or
carcinogenic hazard.

Solubility limitations precluded testing of Lovage Oil in the
cardiovascular and respiratory effects assay.

The capacity of Lovage Oil to induce hepatic microsomal enzyme
activities was assessed following its oral administration at 157
ng/kg (1/2 maximum tolerated dose) daily for 4 days to mice and
rats of both sexes, Hexcbarbital-induced sleep times were
significantly decreased in male but not female mice. No effects
on relative liver weights, p-nitroanisole-O-demethylase activity,
or aniline hydroxylase activity were recorded for Lovage Oil-
treated male rats. All of these parameters were significantly
increased in female rats, but the increases were less than those
caused by phenobarbital, the positive control. Lovage Oil may
therefore be regarded as a weak inducer of rodent cytochrome P450
activity at 157 mg/kg in male mice and in female rats, but not in
male rats. These results do not suggest a likelihood that Lovage
Oi1 will cause significant enzyme induction at anticipated levels
and conditions of use.

A screening test for immunosuppressive potential was conducted by
the oral administration of Lovage Oil to male B6C3F1 mice at a
dose of 157 mg/kg (1/2 maximum tolerated dose) daily for 11 days.
The animals were sensitized to sheep red blood cells (SRBC) by
intraperitoneal injections on the third day of test material
administration, A hemagglutination assay performed on the 12th
@ay following the initiation of dosing showed no suppression of
the anti-SRBC primary immune response among Lovage Oil-treated
mice, suggesting that this material lacks immunosuppressive

Ttosvzbos

