PROJECT NUMSER: 1702
PROJECT TITLE: Aerosol Generation and Filtration
PROJECT LEADER: =X. Cox

PERIOD COVERED: — Gctober, 1967

I. SUBJECE: OPTICAL mvSpEcTION SYSTEMS

A. Qbiective: Develop optical processing techniques for the inspection
of cigarette packs.

B, Regults: The acquisition ef a video library containing images of
both good and defective (fabricated) packs has been completed.

Software routines were written to align (scale, rotate, and
translate) images and to form the dot product matrix, A, for any
given image set. The elements of this matrix are A,.= F,.F, where
F, ig a vector of length $12* and contains the imagainténsdties.
The calculation of the dot product matrix has been carried out for a
set of images of beth good packs and those with bad tear tape. a
synthetic discriminant function (SDF) for discriminating between the
good and bad images will be calculated from this matrix using a
theory developed earlier. This function will be used to design a
matched spatial filter toc use in an optical detection system
capable of distinguishing between the two pack types.

‘Two LeD-Ts (made by Epison and Casio) have been modified, The
Allomination sources, scattering screans, and polarizers were
removed and the screens made more homogeneous and optically flat by
cementing optical flats cut from holegraphic film plates onto both
sides. an optical processing system was assembled to test the
performance ef the modified LCD-TV’/s. when the Episen unit was used
te encode images of different cigarette packs on a laser bean, the
images produced were found to be of a much higher quality than those
produced previously using other LCD-TV!s

One of the most promising optical detection systems currently being
considered is based on an optical Nough tranaformation. The results
obtained using this system can be improved significantly if the
image is edge enhanced prior to the Nough transformation. We have
found that edge enhancement can ba very effectively carried out
simply by rotating the polarizers used with the LCD-TV's by 43
degrees.

Plans

1. Complete evaluation of the LCD-TV's for use in an optical
Processing system.

2. Evaluate the Global Holonetics SMART CAMERA. Determine its
effectiveness in discriminating between good and defective
Cigarette packs.

SBSLTTLO0z

more weer wr Owe ee eae ie ee,

36

