THE REGIONAL AEROSOL TRANSPORT AND DYNAMICS
MODEL MADE - APPLICATIONS TO EUROPE -
LJ. Ackermann, If, [lass and B, Schell
Ford Research Centre Aachen
Siisterfeldstr. 200, D- $2066 Auchen. Germany

‘The Aerosol Model MADE

Tn order to fulfill their scientific tasks state-of-the-art air quality models have to be
capable of predicting particulale matter in addition (o the gas-phase concentrations. A
suitable model aerosol model bas for the application im complex regional transport
models has (o provide sullicieat information on the chemical composition as well a3 on
the size distribution of the particles. Furthermore it has to be integrated into a
photochemical model in order to be able to represent the numerous interactions between
the phases. On the other such a model has to be computationally efficient to enable it's
use for numerous sensitivity studies. Such a model has been developed with MADE
which is based on the Regions: Particulate Model (RPM) and has been implemented into
the regional model system ELRAD, The model system has been applied in @ one-way
nesting scheme from the regioral o the urban scale.

Figure | shows the current model structure of the aerosol model. The size distribucion is
approximated by three different modes spanning the size range of atmospheric particles.
Fach mode is described by a log-normal size distribution that is specified by the number
concentration, the surface. concentration and the mass concentration in each mode. The
mass concentration is further sub-divided into the chemical compounds of tropospheric
particles that are currently given by inorganic ions (sulfate. nitrate and ammonium),
secondary organic compounds (in 4 different bingenic and anthmpagenic species each),
water and secondary particles. The model can treat different kinds of secondary particles
depending on the availability of appropriate emission mventovies. New particle formation
by nucleation, growth by condensation, coagulation, sedimentation, acrosol-cloud
interaction and transport processes are laken into account.

Although this model describes a rather complex aerosol system, it still can be used on
large grids without causing an extensive computational burden,

Secondary Orgunic Particles

The aerosol model has revently been extended to include secondary organic particles, ie,
the particles that result from the low-vapor pressure products (hat are formed in gas-phase
oxidation processes in the atmosphere. First applications of this model system to an
episode in July 1994 show thet these compounds can not be neglected in assessing the
tropospheric PM load.

Figure 2 shows an example of the daily average secondary organic PM mass resulting
from biogenic and anthropogenic precursors. It can be clearly sten that the biogenic
Contribution to the total mass is sigaificant. However these results are strongly sensitive
to the biogenic VOC emission paramettization used. Due (0 the formation process of

bLOLépsose
