TOPIC: Determinstion of tobacco alkaloids using gas chromatography with nitrogen-
phosphorous detection

AUTHORS: I. Smetana, 5. S. Yang*, Research Center, Philip Morris USA.
‘Author to whom correspondeoce should be addressed.)

ABSTRACT:
‘An improved method using rg with» inogen-phosphorous detector (NPD) was used for

Flan heme gntt  coterminaton of alates green and cured tobacco. Tobacco alkaloids of interest

ey
"4

Hint wat
haces
ris

‘ncleded nicotine, somnicotine, myoemine, anabasine and anatabine. Tobacco samples were
‘eared with a small quantity of aqueous ammonium hydroxide solution to “loosen” sobaceo
‘issue and to control pH, followed by solvent extraction. The companition of the exieaction
solution influenced the recoveries of the alkaloids, particularly nomicotine, and also
contributed (o the other observed phenomena such as carry-over at the injection liner and
“quenching” atthe nitrogen-phosphorous detector. ‘The use of a packed injection liner (e.g.,
with Carbowax/KOH on Chromsorb) ts reduce carry-over was studied. Quenching atthe
sitrogea-phosphorous detector was eliminated by redocing the injection volume (i.e,
inereasing the split ratio), by using 1 packed injection liner and by decreasing the amount of
retreatment solution of ammonium hydroxide, A narrow bore capillary column (ue., 0.18
‘am id) was used to improve seasisivity, resolution, and to speed up GC analysis. An
internal standard, 2.4'-dipyridy!, was used for the quantilative measurement of these tobacco
alkaloids.

INTRODUCTION

‘A number of analytical approaches have been reported for the analysis of iobacco alkaloids using
performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE), micellar
lectrokineticcapitlary chromatography (MEKC), 22s chromstography(GQ). and GC combined

‘with a solvendess sampling technique, solid-phase microextraction (SPME} (1-8).
alkeloids of interest usually inckude nicotine and several minor alkaloids, e.g., 0

ine,
ayosmine, anabasine and anatabine. Due to the natore of reversed-phase ILC eclumns, the
applications of HPLC in alkeloid analysis atc often Simited within a pH range of 2-9, Ar a higher
PH, silica particles packed in the columns could be damaged. At 2 lawer pH. nicotine mainly

‘exists in a di-protonated form with linke retention under the reversed-phase HPLC conditions.
Generally, pH¥ of the mobile phase has lo be adjusted to keep nicotine predominately al a free
form or ata miono-protontted form, so that a single peak with minimal tailing ean be obiained
(5). With the restriction in pH, simltneous determination of embpld alkaloids by HPLC in the
presence of the complex tobacco matrix pouty a difficult ask. One of the advantages of CZE.
is ts capability of operating under a broad pHt range, under which conditions nicotine or other
alkaloids can be controlled at any of their thee ionic forms. By applying a combination of a
‘weak buffer at pH 7 and 2 short capitlary, rapid anatysis of nicotine in tobacco cen be achieved in
Jess than one minute (6). However, ke mass/charge ratios of these structurally similar tobacco
kaloids are so close thatthe separation of these compounds in the presence of the tobacco

0)

‘peescozaoz
