Philip Moris USA Confidential
PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A.
INTEROFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
Rickmond, Virginia

Date January 5, 1998

To: RSetana
From: XK. Koller Pe

Sebject: Beta Oder Study, Smroks Level Menseremments, March 1997

Introduction:

‘A subjective evaluation of de odor from Mild 7 Lights, Airs and Beta cigarettes was conducted
March 24 and 25, 1997 at Pecyarn & Kroll, Marketiog & Sensory Research, 4175 East La Patra,
Ste. 205, Anaheim, California, 92807, Concurrent with the subjective odor evaluation,
measurements were ciade of verosol levels in the cvalvation rooms using a light scattering
analytical methodology. Hix memo contains the reault from the analytical measuremeste,

Instromentation:

‘The aerovol level in the odor evaluation room was monitored coniimuously during smoke
generation, and subjective evaluation, by ute of a Model DR2000, DauaRAM Real-time Aeroso}
Monitor (Monitcring instruments for the Environment, In., 7 Oak Park, Sedford, MA 01730).
"The DetaRAM nephelometric monitor is designed to determine the concentration of airborne
dust, smoke, fumes end ruts in industrial and annibient environments. A nephelometer provides
an indirect measurement of fine particle concentrations besed on the relationship between
particle eancentration mad Tight scatieting, ‘The nephelometer detects the light scanered by
pertcles contained i air drawn through che instrument sample chamber, Basically. only ight
that encounters ani aerosol pertick is scattered (redirected) from is original path. The optical
configuration of the DataRAM 2000 is designed so that only scatered light is demscied. The
DR2000 DauaRAM uses a 860 nm Inset and has a.concertration measurement range of 0.1 wg/At”
0 400 mg/m’. A full description of the insiument ia given in the DataRAM instrument snanal
(Attached).

“The DataRAM aerosol monitors used for ibis study were calibrated on March 20, 1997 by the
‘manufscturer. The calibration setings were not subsequently altered. The monitor records data
inonits of ge (of equivalent Arizona toad dunn’. This quantitative measurement is based on
‘calibration with standard particle Arizona road dust with an average particle size of 2 10 3 um.
"The monitors used were not recalibrated for cigarette amoke aerosol, The measurements
‘obtained are appropriate fora relative comparison of the level of smoke arosol presert during
this sudy in the sample rooms, but not for a quantitative determination ofthe mana per unit
‘volume of eiparene smoke suspended particles.

octets¥s08

DOC CODE: POSE
