MORPHOLOGICAL SEUDIES OM HACROPAAGE ACTIVATION BY BACTERIAL
LeIPOPOLYSACCRARIDES

Hakan Nyaran, Hans-Arne Hansson

Activation of maccophagas seems to be a crucial step in the
function of these cells, Several different properties of
activated macrophages could be used experinentally to
demonstrate and etudy the activation process. Vacuclisation of
the cytoplasm could be detected Light-microscopleally and was
described early in the study of theme cells. Enhanced capacity
eo kL1L bacteria or tumor cells and the release of acid
hydrolases have also been used for detection of macrophage
activation. Lipopolyaaccharides (LPS), Eran the cell wall of
Gram-negative bacteria, are known to induce macrophage
activation. However, the mechanism behind this interaction is
largely unknown. Two different possible mechanisms for this
interaction have been suggested + either a direct binding of
EPS to the cell membrane with or without a specific receptor,
or an indirect activation of macrophages via soluble
substances secreted fram activated lymphocytes. In both
instances, activation fa likely to occur via binding of
Ligands to the call surface of the macrophage.

A morphological method for the study of binding of bacterial
LPS to macrophages is described. Bacterial LPS ves labelled
with hocseradish peroxidase (1), and the conjugate vas
incubated with mouse peritoneal macrophages. Binding of the
conjugate to the cells was demonstrated ultrastructurally by
localization of oxidized diaminobenzidine (2). The labelled
WS bound te the cell surface immediately, and could be
desonstrated around the periphery of the cell after 5 min
(Fig. 1). The LPS binding sites on the cell surtace were
redistributed to form patches after 15 min, incubation tine
(Fig. 2), after 45 min., the labelled UPS wae Located within
cytopleanie vesicles in the periphery of the ceil (Fig. 3}.
‘The cell response to the binding could be detected as an
increased ruffling of the plasma senbrane and an intense
vealele Eoraation (Pig. 2; 3)

2501415964

