Indoor Air Quality Commissioning

of a New Office Building

W. Stuart Dols, Andraw K. Persily, Steven J. Nabinger

‘Note: Faliowing isthe executive summary ofthe report
“Indoor Air Quality Commissioing of New Ofice Build-
ing.” The entice repon is reprinued atthe end af this docu-
ment

Introduction

Building commissioning generally refers tosheprovess
cof verifying that building mochanieal systems are operating
a designed, However, commissioning dots not slways
‘include the verification of an “zccepiable” indoor environ:
‘ment forthe building occupants, including factors related
ta indoor ar qusity QAQ). In light of srowing concern
abo indoor sir quality, IAQ commissioningcouldbecome
‘an important part of bulding commissioning programs. A
seell-detied and propesy-implemented TAQ commission-
ing program could help provide a healthy and comfortable
environment forthe building occupants and help reduce
cher problems related to building operaion. However,
thro are eunently no standard TAQ. commissioning
protocols,

Tiarder to identify and undetstand the isues involved
{n implementing such a program, an TAQ commissioning
program was developed and applied tothe new NRC office
building in Rockville, Maryland, This conmissioning ro-
gam is not presented as a candidate for a standardized
protocol for {AQ commissioning, Instead, it was imended
{9 provide expesience and nsight thax will assist in the
evelopment of fuure TAQ commissioning protocols. The
program described in hisreportennsited of ime aks: (I)
evaluate the mechanical ventatin system design fom an
TAQ pesspectve; (2) develop asetofenviconmentl pecfor
mance paramevers and assocated reference values thal will
be used to evalust [AQ in the building, an (3) measure
dese environmental parameters inthe building and com-
‘pars them with the rofeence values developed in Task 2

Task 1: Design Evaluation

‘The purpose of Task 1 was to compare those features
ofthe building design that pertain 0 LAQ to relevant build-
ing codas and IAQ guidelines. These comparisons were
made for outdoor airinake rates and pressure rclationships
betwoen building zones The design outdoor air intake tes
‘ofthe mochanical ventilation system were compared voboth
ate ROCA Mechanical Code, upon which the venation
system design was based, and American Society of Heating,
Refrigerating and Ait Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAB)
‘Standard 62-1989 (Table 2on page 12). Tho design ouldoor
Airflow rates confarin with the BOCA Code and in some
cases exceed the BOCA requizements. The design outdocr
airintake rates ar slightly below the ASHRAE recommen

dations ia several zones and well ahove ASHRAE reeom-
‘mendations in other 2ones. However, te system is capable
of providing outdoor airflow rates what would comply with
ASHRAE Standard 62-1989 toall zones of the building,

Task 2: Indoor Environmental Parameters

‘Task 2 consisted of the developmen of a set of
parameters fo characterize the indoor envisonetent i the
building, The values measured in shi building were com-
pared toa set uf reference values. [deally, these parameters
and the associated xeference values would be based on
existing standards, However, in most cases therearenoTAQ
standards for office buildings, Werofore, the reference
values (Table 5 on page 20) were based on other guidelines
‘andthe resus of previous 1AQ research effons (Table 4.on
page 16). The referonce values do not svictly define an
acceptable indoor environment, but are meant io providean
indication of tho acceptability of te environment based on
‘he limited informatioa that i avilable, and to identify the
otenéal for situations of concern in the building, Three
categaries of indoor eavimamental parameters were
‘measured inthe building: venuilation, pollutants, and thsr-
‘mal comfort, The following isa list ofthese parameters.

1, Yeailadon Performance - Outdoor airflow rate and
rossure relationship beawseen zones.

2, Pollutants - Carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, for-
takiehyde, particulates, radon, volatile organic com-
pounds.

3. Thermal Comfort « Temperature, celadve humidity,
‘operadive temperature.

Task 3: Indoor Environmental Monitoring

TAQ monitoring was performed in Wee phases of
‘building construction: {1) Interior build-out comple; (2)
System fuminue insalled; and (3) Approximately one
‘month after occupancy, Tre results of these measurements
are summarized here.

Outdoor Alrtiow rate

‘During occupancy (Phase 3), te outdoor airintake rae
er person delivered to each of the eleven zones was at or
above ASHRAE 62-1989 recommendations with the ex:
‘eplion af the sixth floor and the auditoriam (Table 8 on
page 29). The outdoor airflow rate the sixth Moor waslow
‘because an outdoor air intake damper serving his floor was
broken during Phase 3. An outdoor air damper serving one
of the fifth floor mechanical rooms was also broken, caus+

‘Way 10-12, Chicape, Minos

3

DOG

GEETLO
