CTR PROGRESS REPORT

Grant rumber_saa1__

_ Progress Period from, ?/1/92 ta; 31/30/92

Name of Investigator: Msrianne Woss]ing-Resnick, Ph.D.

Title of Original Grant: rhe vole of rab structure in vesicle bictoay

Alstract of the Specific Aims as stated in the ori;
2.) To identity bydrophobs $ ifigations of sab proteins. Pol yi so-
prenyiation and carboxyuet ylation 0 Band 7 will be examined, Experinents
will be performed to deteriine jf prenylation is prerequisite for subsequent
carboxynethylation. Cytoszlic and nomhrane fractions froa mitotic sue interphase
cells will be utilized to identify potential regulation of the carboxymethyl ation
of rabs § and 7 during cel) cycle,

al application:

2.) to determine how struc:
fic.

By reconstituting the activity of rabs § and 7 in a ten
will determine their precive role in vesicle traffic. Using a previously entabl ished
in vitro vesicle transport assay, we are able to assess vesicle docking, vesicle

fusion, and vesicle fission, In particalar, we wil) study the relative contributions
of isoprenylation versus carboxymethylation jn rab protein function, These struckure/
function studies will provide key insights into thy role of rab proteins in vesicle
traffic and how hydvophobis protein wodificationr contrimute to their activity.

List any publications (avther, ttle and journal) resulting from the enrrent CTR award
feat contain a printed acknowledgment of CTR support, For manuscripts, the designation
“in Dress” means you have a preprint: otherwise use “accepted for publication by .",
“submitted for publication" o» in preparation". Do not list publications that do got
acknowledge CTR support, -

Senford, J. C., Kapadia, 2. A., Han, ¥. and NessJing-Kesnick, 4, (1992) Properties
of Rab5 N-Terminal Lonsin hictate tsoprenylation of C-Yerminal Cysteines, manuscript
in preparation

Sanford, J. C. and Wessling-Resniek, 4. (1992) RubS Enhances Methylation of a Nove)
17/19 kDa Factor, manuscript in 5 ation.

Report of Progress (no mere than four (4) pages, please) vol. applicable.
