Jordan BrevslefLoriarMLBA To Debea MeistaLcrilordMLEREMLBA
2/01/2002 08-58 AM =
bee

‘Subject Re: Updaved Games an butournow corn

Tknow youhave a lat on your plate and lappreciate you evan givingit he inital glance that you did, balieve
mel will just go eheed ard launch t trusting the techrical skills of Lersen inleraciive. Bul when we lookte
develop new gomes later this year, maybe we can atleast have ariel discussion atthat point

Goodluck with SAP end well sneak soon.

Debio Meister

rs Debra Meister
17312002 07.15 FM
To onion ats Lorimer AL BACSMLBA

‘Subject: Re: Undated Games on buttoutnow:corn A

{wish | coutd help you but | ust don't have the time to do it(balieve me | rather be ding that than what | am
doing). Tdor't have my new FC hooked ur yet orl could play with tet home a bil In the ofc, I'm in the middle
UfSAP and wun"tbe vulcfilfor saute 6 oF 7 monlhs. Ilyau really need sumeume for this you might want to talk,
In sarmenne in IT Management in see they could assign samen tn it

Jordan Bressler

ordan Bressler Tor Dubie Aisi Loria. EAEMLGA
9191920706 PM =
Subject Fin Updated Girnee: on bautoutnaw coral

hear yeu. and | agree, However. atthis pein. |just need to be eure thal technically. there are no bugs or
glitches inthe prod ctyou currently see. Can you please let me know ASAP if thet aspect ofthe gems is OK
and ther cen launch it?

FM1~ Ihave seen the Windows maze, Itobviously is well beyand these folks,
Debre Meister

rs Debra Meister
0170172002 08:05 FM
To oui Bassler Lovie oA BACIMLEA

‘Subject: Re: Undated Games on buttoutnow.corn A

Sorry! didn't gat beck to you sooner. I sill hinkit's boring and 2 dimensions! litwere three dimensional and it
moved tie way the windows screensaver moze maved itwould be much better. Youve szen thathovent you?
Hnot step by and Ill show itto you.

wish |eould testthase games for living... Have @ goad one,

Deb

Jordan Bressler

ordan Bressler to: Debra Alenia Leilna MLA GA

ovevez anes Pe =
Subject: Updated Games on butlotnow com

Deb-

81871710
