RJROO00001
70042 2366

PROCEDURE NOTE

Procedure Note No:95-09R, Date: September 4, 1996

Temporary____—_ Effective Date: 9-19-96 Termination Date:

Permanent X.

Type: Product, Process Packaging Flavor
TobaccoX  Material__—_—Other.

SUBJECT: Recommendation to PN 96-09: 4 Mesh Screening on the UTI Line at
CRES Tobacco Company

BACKGROUND: In March of 1995 the upper size criterion for making UTKGP2SC)
was temporarily changed from 6m to 4m by authorization of PN #95-09. The purpose
was to balance generated quantities of UTI and its by-products to existing

requirements. Secondary objectives were to realize additional benefit from cutter by-
pass, optimize process compatibility of scrap purchases, and reduce the frequency of
recipe changes. This was followed by PN 95-09R, which made the change permanent.
In actual practice, only the first screen of two in series was converted to 4mesh in order
to minimize the impact on particle size. During evaluation of UT! in Brook Cove strip, it
was determined that this “compromise” screening arrangement is inellicient and that
signiticant amounts of UTI- sized material are being left in X6MM and, 10 a lesser extent
CKX4/6. The second 6 mesh vibratory screener in series on the UTI line was replaced
with a 4 mesh for a period of 5 weeks in order to evaluate impact on yields of UTI and
+4m by-products. Due to unforeseen circumstances, the raw materials which
comprised the oriental and flu-cured components of UTI differed significantly between
the control and tast legs, with coarse scrap being run primarily during the first five
weeks and fine scrap for the last five weeks. This masked some of the subtle shifts in
particle size that were expected to be observed in the GP2SC material and
exaggerated particle size shifts in the by-product. ll was readily apparent that small
incremental movements in particle size are dwarfed in comparison to those attributable
to routine raw material variability. Stem content was not negatively impacted.

RECOMMENDATION: For these reasons, it is recommended to adopt this
configuration permanently rather than incur needless delay wailing for ‘sieady state”
Taw material conditions. Recipes and bills of materials can remain unchanged for now,
as itis evident that the yield shift from +4m by-products to GP2SC cannot be accurately
predicted based on a “snapshot” of raw material

OBJECTIVES: The original objectives oullined above are applicable to this proposal.
Additionally, the potential exists to offset UTI inclusion reductions due to shortages of
scrap through more efficient utilization. Preliminary savings were extremely positive but
were based on degradation shaker efficiencies and coarse aw materials. Adjusted

Procedure Note No:96-09R. Date: September 4, 1996

zsea ezoes

10421 088567

