Ese9-4a
Nowarnber 24, 1999,

Anti-Tobacco Campaigns and Smoking Restrictions: On
SPECIAL THIS WEEK... |] Ni 1 Worl zat ded its
“WHO Internati on Tobacco ang Health” in

“WHO Intemational Conference on Tobacco and Health” in Japan
Tobacco Weekly 99-48 _ jon” i
Tobsero Weekly ‘adlopting the “Kobe Declaration.” The declaration contains the WHO's

Legislative Bulletin 99-38

approach to what it calls the tobacco “epidemic,” including raising
‘Tobaceo Tiade Busomoet taxes on tobacco, banning tobacco advertising, and expanding anti-

September 1999 tobacco programs for youth. Specific plans outlined in the Kobe
Declaration will be incorporated into the WHO's Framework
Convention for Tobacco Control (WA 99-44), currently being drafted
{Mainichi Daily News 31/24), @ ember 224 in the U.S,,the
National Cancer ingtitute released what it considers the most

comprehen report on purported health risks as: ith ronmental eco smo)
(ETS). The report, entitled Health Effects of Exposure to Enoironmentat Tobacco Smoke: The Report of the
California Environmental Protection Agency, links ETS with not only hung cancer, but with sudden infant
death syndrome (SIDS), heart disease and several others that affect both children and adults. The
report cites 18 epidemiological studies reportedly Linking ETS and heart disease. In a preface to the
report, US. Surgeon General and Assistant Secretary for Health David Satcher stated that the results
“more than justify public policies creating smoke-free workplaces and public areas.” ®The One Double
Oh: in Sant fornia has e's dng ban self a
“club and smoking patlor.” Last month Santa Cruz County Superior Court Commissioner John
Mulligan dismissed charges brought against owner Mark Swanson, ruling, “Since the defendant has
followed the strict letter of the code, this court cannot find fault in his conduct. The legislature needs fo
address the issue if they feel itis important.” However, the county's district attomey has iow filed a
civil lawsuit against Swanson, arguing that the law defines a tobacco shop as.a place where the “main
purpose” is the sale of tobacco products. A hearing on the matter is set for November 29th (San Jose
Mercury News 11/23). @Zhe Indian T fi in New Delhi, Indi

jovernments to focus on basic necessities for their iizens rather than on. anti-
smoking campaigns. ITA’s president B. 8. Krishnamurthy argued that, given the limited success
achieved by developed countries in curbing smoking, Indian governments owe citizens a 20 to 30 year
transition period for major changes to take effect. Krishnamurthy wamed the government that up to 30
million workers in the industry will be displaced and excise revenue currently at USS 1.2 billion will

et if i-smokis i LHe also pointed out that

the industry is researching ways to reduce the harmful effects of tobacco and control nicotine and ‘tar’
content (Times of India 11/22, Rediff on the Net 11/22, TW99-48, WA99-48).

action certific ud lawsuit filed agains
Smokers, who brought suit for some 700,000 Minnesota smokers, The judge niled that the plaintiffet
complaint in Janel Thompson et al. vs. Amerionn Tobacco Company, inc. eal. “is riddled with individual
questions that predominate over questions common to the class.” The euit had sought unspecified
damages to fund screening programs designed to detect alleged amoking related i as well as
cessation programs. ®On Nc nad pcuments from

RJRO000001 531070205
70062 3255

8Bbe Zo1eg

