May &, 1998

Dear Colleague:

‘This afternoan, Reynolds Tobacco Company and other major (obaoco companies agroed
to settle litigation that was underway in Minnesota,

now many of you will be disappointed by the decision to settle what hus looked to be
dubious litigation at best. Lam writing to you to explain why I concluded il was in our
best interest 1o sign onto such a settlement,

First, 1 want you to know that our decision had little to do with the merits of the case
against the tobacco companies in Minnesota. Rather, we concluded that, after a long
series of court rulings that prevented the companies from telling their entire story to the
jury, i would be extremely difficult to reach a fair outcome,

‘Time and again, when allowed to see all of the relevant evidence and heer all of the
arguments in trials, jurors have embraced the notion that tobacco is a tegal product with
widely known health risks and that companies should not be held liable for engaging ina
Jegal business, In fact, a tecent NBC/Wall Stet Journal poll reported that 90 percent of
Americans belicve the industry should nol be subjected to this type of litigation.

Nevertheless, we also have to face facts: The dock may have been stacked against the
industry in Minnesota for reasons unrelated (o the merits of the case, but the financial
consequences of an unfair outcome could have hurt ovr companies enormously, Thave an
obligation to act in a manner that will protect your jobs, the value of the companies we
‘own and our shareholders’ investment in RJR Nabisco.

‘A few works aga I said publicly that we were prepared to fight the unrcasonable process
that was evolving in Washington with all our might.

‘We have been doing that effectively. The American people are giving us a fair hearing
and letting Washington know that they're troubled by one-sided legislation that amounts,
to huge taxation and burdensome bureaucracy,

Our purpose is to help the country to come to a fair and reasonable resolution of the
controversy thal sorrounds tobacco in our society, This process will require us to fight
vigorously at times and to compromise at others. We will need to do whal’s right,
depending on the circumstances of the day and 1 am confident that ultimately we will
come to the rigit resolution.

{In rocent weeks I've received boxes Cull of leters, e-mails and faxes from cilizens across
the country who are concerned that politics has gotten out of contral when it comes to
(obacco and who support our efforts to find reasonable solutions. I've been moved
especially by the hundreds of notes from people within our own companies who are
rightfully proud to be standing up for what is right.

RJR0000000050005057

70046 4137

e022 ez9zg

