2080324142
Woodroof, McCall E. ——

From: Hom, Bonnis T.
Tuesday, January 20, 2001 11:44 AM

Woodraof, McCall E; Maurici, Vito; Dewerpe, Anthony V.; Bergmann, Sven
Rafferty, Shelby J.

Budget Binder

Hial,

| think we all eaized from our recent budget review that we need to have a beter handle on the budget on a daily basis,
‘As per Shelby’ request, | have created a Retail Budget Binder which wil reside on the shelves in font of the aseistants
desks, This binder wil abvays contain the up te date vertical and back up information forall of our programs as wel a the
Menthol and NY State programs, In order to keep this up to date | ave set sorne guidelines to centralize all of the
changes made in the budget.

Monthly Promotion Butigets: POS, fixture graphics, D.A.D, Agency estimate

[think fis best fo have one person making alf of tha monthly changes in the POS and fixture graphic budgets. | will

‘olunteer so please provide me withthe following and i sil work wilh finance and keep the budget updated

= Estimated cost for total POS and total fixture graphics when you start planning based on the mast recent month's cost.

+ Actual total POS and total fixture graphic costs when rags are received. (I do nat need the actual reqs - just a total
umber.)

‘For product promotions: DAD cost (payment and qumber of primary kits) and Packaging cost (skeeve and labor cost)

+ Agency estimates - I dont need each estimate, just provide a total for the promotion

+ Offer promotion cost - ie. development and testing of a new sleeve

| wauld ike to create a Promotion file that keeps are rags, agency estimates, packaging development cost tagether for
‘each month, We can reference these when planning future promotions. twill ry and set this up in the fing cabinet
aulside my office but wil let you know.

Promotional Overlays: Chili

‘+The person running these programs should work with Finance on the budget for the program as they cross over to
ther areas of the budget . Please just keep me in the loop with any changes thet are made in the vertical and backup
sothal can make sure we have the up to date information in the binder

= We should also include a write up about any potential budget changes discussed lor hese programs which have not
yet been reflected in the finance files (e.9. detailed options for a Special Blend trade incentive program). Please
ffovide me with a brief overview of patential changes for the binder

Other: PPOS, 2pk/3pk
‘The person running these programs should work with finance on the budget for the program. Please just keep mein the
loop with any changes iat are made in the verfcal and backup s0 that | can make sure we have the up to date information
inthe binder.

Sources of Funds
‘Tete ls a section in the binder called Sources, This shows where we nave extra money due to a change in programs or
estimated vs, actua cost. Currently wa have $600,000 here from the decrease in fixture graphic costs. This money can
tbe used to fund any shortages in our program or possibly ven to another group.

Please let me know if you have any questions,

Bonnie
