2078874118

From Steve Jarvia (mailto:starvisdama.org)
Sent: Thursday, Septenber 07, 2030 7:05 PH

To: prmomediarelations@pmmc. com

Subject: Marketing News Magazine xequest for interview

Peggy Roberts .
Media Relations Director
PhiLip Noreis USA

Ms. Roberts:

T am currently weiting an article for Marketing News Magazine examining the
ways major tobacco companies have met the challenge of marketing their
products under the new master settlement agreenant. Marketing News is
Published tuice a month by the American Marketing Association, and has a
readership of over 190,000 marketing professionals at large and small
corporations across the country.

I would like to conduct a brief telephone interview with « leader from
Philip Morcia’ cigarette brand marketing team.

Topica T have in mind for a brief interview include.

1, Briefly, what are Philip Morris' latest advertising/promotional
Anitdatives?

Contamue to have a nunber of options available to us te responsibly market to
adults, provide overview of Party at the Ranch and Racing School

2. Mow has the loss of Billboard advertising impacted overall marketing
stuategy?

= Outline provisions of MSA, the fact that e's overall media spending ta down
fzom 98 to 99 and outlina our commitment to reducing the viaibility of cigarette
advertising

3, How will the loss of youth-oriented magazine ads impact the overall tons
of your marketing campaign? More adult? Hore conservative?

= Our ads have been and will continue to be aimed at adults, we will continue to
work with the AGs to develop 4 standard to accurately measure youth readership

4, How successful has Philip Morvis been so far in discouraging young people
fron smoking? Any new anti-smoking initiatives for youtks on the horizon?

More needs co be done by ore people, society's efforts appear te be working and
latest government reports indicate that youth smoking 14 declining, outline our
YsF efforts

5. What specific steps has the company taken/will take te make aure not to
target youths in cigarette marketing campaigns?

Outline our responsible marketing practices and AG oversight of our marketing
practices

6. Any other marketing strategy changes directiy/indirectly tied to the
setslement agreenent?
Outline NSA provisions

T will contact you again in the near future and will make myself available
