Origa eesage
From: Dard Mark
‘Samet, Novena 8, 1900 5:31 PM

Tor ‘keane, Deveer ers, Ever Nelson, Jote 8. (lckt Cox, chad M: Mado, Shon Grearoerg, Dad
Subject: FDA Weak Note

‘The following appears in the current FDA Week:

OA has asked the Instkute of Medicine (JOM) to convene a committee to study the public heath impact of
products Intended to reduce the conaumplion of tobacco euch ea a0-called safer cigaraties and nicotine:
replacement products, The broad issue the agency fs asking KOM fo consider is how these “harm reduction
products wil affect the public heahh. The commuiiae will review avidenca to dacide t use of these products.
Gecreases exposure fo harmful substances in tobanco, consder how any decreased exposure might affect heaith,
and determine how any health impacts could be measured.

‘The move comes as at laws! one malar tobacco company, Philp Monts, has recentiy embarked on a public
relations campaign, adrnitiing thal cigaretie smoking is harmful to heath and thet nicotine is additive.

FDA asked (OM to establish the commnites in anticipation of products hitting the markel that are not intended t©
‘alminata the cormumetion of tobacco, but rathar to reduce them. As explained by an 1OM source, some:
manufacturers ate considering a new indicetion for cigarettes thal would reduce harm but not eliminate
‘consumption, “oma people wonder i these products might be more of a health danger, f people start amoking
‘mare offen, or slay might affect smoking related deaths, so thle etudy wil ry fo ansees their impact earty on.”

‘An (OM summary of the study goals dascibes tome of the reasone tha harm reduction straiegy is queationed,
including adverse consequences 2s a result of complacency In the face of ‘sata’ tobacco products.

“The adverse consequences Include tha possibilty that use of ‘safer’ or lass hammu products would actually
acreage the number of people who cease une of tobacco, and Increase overall tobacco use by altering parooived
‘iak and eoclal accaptance,” states tha aummary.

WLPEBLZELOZ
