CONFIDENTIAL
{For Response Only)

Camel “Pleasure to Burn” Campaign

Key Messages/QA
September 17, 1999

KEY MESSAGES

* Camel is introducing a new advertising campaign, “Plaasure to Burn - Since 1913,"
(Ads begin appearing in October issues of magazines.) The new campaign depicts
moments of smoking pleasure. At first glimpse, each ad appears to have a “retro” feal, but
@ second look reveals that each ad also includes an utlerly modern element.

* Pleasure to Burn celebrates Camel's decades of popularity - with interesting
Juxtapositions of the old and the new. For example, a male detective wears a classic
‘hat and trench coat, but sports an earring; and a lady reminiscent of past eras chats on a
coll phone.

Tho juxtaposition of the classic and the contemporary In the ads represents what
Camel is:a brand with a rich heritage, that also keeps up with the times.

Anything that deserves to be called “a classic" ~ whether i's a cigarette brand, a car, or
clothing -- earns that fille by having a prestigious history and contemporaty flair... “A
classic" is something that made its mark on different times and cultures, bul also appeals
to a modein sense of style and taste, Camel is one of the few cigarette brands which can
celebrate many differenl decades of popularity, a history of different limes and cultures.
Came! has a timeless heritage that few other cigarelte brands can own

+ This campaign will ransiate well to many different media and applications, to give
the Camel brand a memorable, unified, more integrated presence in the places
where we can communicate with adulf smokers. The formal of these ads is flexible
enough to work well as a magazine ad, a bar sign, a retail sign, or direct mail, This
campaign can come to life in a variety of sizes, shapes, formats, and locations.

We neod advertising vehicies to work harder for us in the new world of tobacco
restrictions = powerfully and succinctly communicating our brand message to adult
smokers. The cigaretle-marketing environment has changed profoundly during the past
year —with numerous bans and restrictions on cigarette marketing as a result of the Master
Settlement Agreement with the state altomeys genetal. The restricted environment is
compounded by fierce competition, unprecedented price increases, and an enormous

RUR1241009710
70006 9414

Biez zezee
