O'Connor, Lori M.

From: Tomassini Alison
‘Sent: Friday, Je 8. 1999 2:48 PM
To: Noah, Bill <RBM>
Ce: Grout, Ronald B.; O'Connor, Lori M.
‘Subject: Salem Green Zone Request - Richmond/Norfolk
MEMORANDUM
To: Bill Noah ot.
RBM, Richmond Region XN
Fg
FROM: Ron Grout
Alon Tomassini
Lori O'Connor
DATE: Janvary 8, 1998,
RE: Richmond/Norfolk Salem Green Zone Request

1. Background’

In the 2™ quarter, the Salem brand is planning to expand their experiential marketing program into the

metropolitan area of RichmendiNorfolk. Developing Salem "Green Zones” within city limits is a critical piece of

the program. The objective of a Green Zone is to optimize Salam box distribution and presence in tight

Sgeograptic areas where 21-19 year old adull compeitve smokers aro kely {0 Ive, work, go out and shop.
hese areasineighborhoods will act as a catalyst in reaching the right consumers. Field sales objective ina

Green Zone is fo gain display and presence in the majority of monthly calls.

In addition, Salem has contracied KBA Marketing “Green Team’ representatives (who alreadly live and work in
these areas) to call on low volume stores regularly, to supplement Field Sales activity. ney wil begin cating
on these stores in April to: (1) verify current addressflocation (2) gain display and (3) build Salem presence,
As they go through the list, they will determine the frequency needed to return to each call

H.  Requast
{n order to layout the Richmond/Norfolk geographic areas of a Green Zane, we would like Field Sales input on
the following (please exclude PMX and RJR lock out calls)

(1) A ist of monthly pack outiet calls in metro areas with high menthol indices, particularly where competitive
grnokers ae ty to live, work, go out and shop, Please group by geography, utilizing smal! boundaries
ie. rhoods)

(2) Allist of low volume pack outlet calls that RJR does not call on. These can be within Green Zone
boundaries or in areas with high menthol index.

ill hank you in advance for your help in developing these Grean Zones. Please forward the fists to us by
February 2” or earlier. We are looking forward to bringing experiential marketing to Richmond, Contact Lori
‘O'Connor at (336) 741-3019 as questions arise.

go6e Szyes

