2078702030

Original Message-
From: Berlind, Mark
Sent: Friday, October 29, 1999 12:10 PM

Tor Seruggs, John; Nicoli, David; Harris, Peter b. (PLH); Lindneim, James
(3b); Mezlo, Ellen; Greenberg, David

Cc: Keane, Oenise

Subject: CETFK Letter to GCB/FDA

the first “demand dn CPTEK's letter to GCB is that ve end our opposition to
hyeasonoble regulation of tobacco products” and "end the sokescreen that FOR
regulation of Tobacco wili inevitably lead to a ban on cigarette sales to
aduite, the FDA haa never advocated or supported a ban...

there Are {at least) severa? possible responsea to this:

+ BH-USA is already on record as supporting reasonable FDA regulation. See
testisony regarding Proposed Resolution; NHB apeech te analysts; SCP Wightline
interview.

+ POR 4g now saying, in order to defend their regulations after the Fourth
Cic. decision, that a ban would be permissible, and even appropriate. For
exanple, theix first brief to the Supreme Court atated that

YE this Court were to overturn FOA‘s judgment that the risks of tobacco products
are outweighed by the councerveiling benefits of continued marketing to adults,
that would simply wean that the Act, @s presently written, requires tobacco
products to be banned. That consequence, however, would in no way undermine
Forts conclusion that tobacco products are...subject to regulation under the
Act. In those circumstances, then, it would properly be for Congress, after
weighing the competing considerations, to decide whether the ban thet was (by
hypothesis) required by the Act in its current form should remain in effect, or
whether the Act should be amended to permit the continued marketing of
Cigarettes and other tobacco products, under whatever conditions Congress might
prescribe. (Emphasis added)

‘And, in FDA's reply brief (dated October 1999}, they stated that

Af, as we have shown, compelling new evidence establishes that the nicotine in
tobacco products is intended to sustain addiction and.tobacco preducts cannot be
marketed with e reasonable assurance of safacy ~ the Act would require a ban.
The fact that the legislature whe voted for the 1938 Act did not anticipate that
auch evidence would come to Light and that tobacco products would be covered by
the Act av a result - or that sone might bave regarded a ban as undesirable even
in those circumstances - is simply not relevant to the statutory inquiry.

+ The fact thac cigarette smoking ia addictive, as that term is most
commonly used today, dows not mean that cigarettes should be reguleted as
medical products, Irrespective of how difficult it can be to quit smoking,
there is simply an irreconcilable conflict in the idea that an inherently unsafe
product can be rationally addressed under regimes designed to apply to products
That cure disease or confer other medical benefits. ‘The challenge for
Teasonabie people is to look for ways to address governments’ legitimate
Interests in playing an overeight role with respect to cigarettes, while at the
tone tine respecting both the preferances of advlts who choose to consume them
deapite the known risks, and the belief of the vast majority of the public that
adalts should continue to be permitted to make that choices.
