—Oeginal Mowsage—- 2069753001

From: Holand. Fan

Sent Monday, January 22,2001 4:24 PM

fer BL PNUSA ROKE - Richmond; Gomes, Joao C. (John Tucker. 2; Fridiich, Henman, Kiernan, Gra. Blauuh. Dave. Hameo,
Richard N.; McConnell Gorgon: Hargrass, Elis L; Gal, Vice; Saunders, Emwn C  Cafloway, Jesse L. Gea. Diane L; Parrett
Susan, Gundlach, Mark R.; Maher, Michael B.; Day, Edward A Paterson, EveretiC: Munoz, Cada; Aeschimann, Reyrald,
eto, Paul M.; Wagoner, Rokr

ce: ‘Along Hecor: Nyse; Bumiey, Herold G.; Cummings, Greg A: Laventan, Mechae: esha, Oan
Snippet: PM Caripanies Werld Wide Procass Technology Sjmposiyn = Mating and Regisaton Ife
Dear Colleagues:

We are in the final stages of planning the PM Companies Workiwkle Process Technology Symposium, to be nels March
6th - Sth, 2001 In Montreal, Quebec, Canada, This symposksm will provide a forum for PM's process engineers and
scientists lo exchange information and expariences with new technologies towards identifying cross-campany
‘opportunities for growth and productivity.

‘The allached dacuments provide more detai's abaut the symposium, including regstralion information, a pretminary
agenda and list of presentations. The technical content will be cutstanding ~- with over 30 oral presentations and G0 poster
presentations covering @ wide range of topics with represeatation from all ofthe PM Companies business units,

We anticipate a high level of inlerest in participation. Unfortunately, meeting space / attendance is limited, and itis
therefore quite possible that we may be unable to accommodate ail persons who would lke to attend. For that reason.
please submit your registration requests wo tater than Feb 1, 2004, and defer making travel arrangements unl your
registraion is confiimed. Registration information and forms are provided in the attachment

While the registration for speakers and poster presenters will obviously be confined, itis necessary that each individuat
submita registration request to ensure we have an accurate headcount of attendees for meals and social events. Your
cfedit card number is alsa needed to hold a room for you.

All PMUSA and PMI employees should forward there registration requests to Tom Holland.

We look forward to your participation.
(On behaif of the PM Symposium Organizing Cormmittec:
Sincerely,

Tom

‘Tom Holana
(rector Process Projects and Technology
PAUSA, ROBE

ocTeE

Richmond, va 23261

“Tel: (804) 274-3717

Fax: (604) 274-3586

PM sium Organizing Commitee
Bob Aitornare, Chairman (KFNA)
Thomas Demmer (KF taterialional)
Dennis Daniels (Miler Brewing}

