Original Message—

>From: "Sanders, Edward <Sanders. Edward @pmintlch>
>To “Solana, Rick P." <Rick.P,Solana@pmuss.com>
2G

Bec:
>Subject! Request

pType! IPMNots

>Date: ‘Monday, Novembar 20, 2000 8:25 AM
Rick,

>AS you may of may not know, wa will be moving to aur permanant quarters around the end of 2001. | think itis
absolutely essentiat that we devote an extra effort io organizing our Iterature before the move takes place. In any event,
‘we need to soothing, or you risk losing most of your European stall in that we are about to be smothered in paper. To
amy out what Ihave planned, | would lise your authorization ‘0 hire @ temporary secretary at 50% Hore Is my totat plan.

D1. Hiring a temporary secretary al 50% would frse illo concentrate on our literature needs « both the current needs
‘and nods brought about by the upcoming move. « would take over a part of André’s current duties, while other duties,
that André 's currently carrying out would be taken aver by having thase of us who are currently nat using Documents do
60,

>2. André would take on another task that we sorely nead that no ona is free to help us with currently: namely, the
‘construction of databases for cettain key scientific Issues, We have the means to carry out Iterature searches and te
select key arlicies for those searches, but we fave no one who is able to build a database from the arlicies selected. We
‘can clearly got Ihis done on the oulsive, and are doing 80 for the subject infections In childhood associated wilh ETS.
‘exposure. However, it would bo both mare efliclent and significantly ass costly it we were to do this In-houss.

8. At the end of 2001, we would release the temporary secretary. i Jil has darnonstrated an abiity to do an excellent
job in this area, itis highly probable that an opening in the ibrery would be created fo- her. in that case, we would repiace
Jill with a neve secretary. If Jil als 1o dernonstrate abilly in this area, then she would resume her dues as secretary.

_>1{eal this plan accomplishes several objectives at a very imitad cost. First ofall it allows us the possibilty of really
‘organizing the highly scattered literature that we currently have in a manner that wil allow us to work much mote efficiently
and effectively in the (uture. Secondly, it provides challenges and opportunities for growth for ‘wo junior stat! members.
Thirdly, a8 aireacly indicated, it wil eventualy take a mafor load off ths senior paople’s shoulders,

>Ploage fot me know ff thie makes sense to you, and I wil proces.

>Thanks.
Ted

V89LO0S 1807
