RJR Employee Supplemental
Eclipse Q&A

1. How Is Eclipse doing In Chattanooga?

Eclipse is doing 0.k. There is a core group of smokers in Chattanooga
who are very committed to the brand. They've told us that Eclipse has
made important changes in their lives. For example, a lot of smokers
appreciate that their clothes and hair, their homes and cars, don't smell
like smoke anymore. And they like the fact that Eclipse doesn't bother
those around them like their old brand did,

Also, we have a number of smokers in Chattanooga who smoke Eclipse:
on an occasional basis, usually driven by the situation they're in (e.g.,
in their new car, around non-smoking friends, at work, etc).

While we wish there were a greater number of smokers buying the brand
brand in Chattanooga, we're encouraged by the committment of the
smokers who do like Eclipse, and by the fact tha! they remain a pretty
stable group. Like many new products, it takes time to build a loyal

ang significant consumar base, but we are confident in Eclipse's potential,

2. What Is the share of market for Eclipse In Chattanooga?

Eclipse has less than a share point in Chattanooga, but is stable from
month to month.

3. Why Is Reynolds kaaping Eclipse In Chattanooga instead of moving Into
additional markets?

We have learned a great deal in Chattanooga about how smokers react
to Eclipse, which smokers represent the greatest potential, and which
Issues ara the most important to address before moving forward. For
example, smokers would like Eclipse to be easier to light. We're taking
the time necessary to make that improvement, and make the taste of
Eclipse even better while we're at it. We continue to do extensive testing
in Chattanooga and throughout the U.S., and will use all of the results to
determine when and where we may expand Eclipse next.

4. (Queations about which markets, when, how much we'll spend, atc.)

('m sorry, the answer to that quastion is confidential right now. We'll
keep employees informad whan we can.

OLs9 trees

RJR0000000520012068
70022 3529

