te
—orgeat mesage
from: Pool oy
Sent Wenesday, Novenber 21,2001 1:32 7H

Tor Parah, soee 2085246950
e__Baced, Mor, Toor, Ovid
‘Sobincs Parte Sanement

Importance: Hig

Itappears that the “cease and desist” efforts may have captured the attention of the
media.

Accordingly, | suggest that wo create a simple holding statement, which we can pass.
out if there are any press inquiries today, which could also be used over the weekend if
there are further inquiries. Given this holiday weekend, and sinco it's likely to be a slow
news time, this may get a little unusual trac

Here's my shot: what do you guys think? s

Philip Morris Companies Inc. has proposed to its shareholders that the name of the
‘Corporate parent be changed to Altria Group, Inc. This name was chosen, in part, to
teflect the operational excellance and financfal strength of a company that is reaching
ever higher.

{tis virtually impossible to Identify or pick a name which is ot being used by some
‘company somewhere in the world, and we were aware that at least two other business
entities in the United States include the word “Altria” in thelr Corporate fitles. The Issue
is whether these companies - or any others with the same name - were engaged in
similar lines of business with that of Philip Morris Companies, Inc. Philip Morris

Companies Inc. is principally Involved In the wortdwide marketing and manufacturing of
packaged consumer qoads.
‘After much research, we believe it Is quite clear that none of our current business lines
overlap with those of elther of the other companies in question. Accordingly, we intend
to move forward with our efforts to seek shareholder approval of the namo change. We
will commit, however, to engaging those entities which currently share the Altria namo.
We hope such engagement will lead to a satisfactory resolution of any issues which
may have arisen as a result of our decision.

Itis important to note that none of the principle operating companies of the proposed
Altria Group, inc. - Philip Morris USA, Philip Morris Internationat, Kraft Foods North
America, Kraft Foods Intemational and Miller Brewing Company - will change. Only the
Corporate parent is proposing to change its name.

