DATE. February 24, 2002
TO: Tom C. Griscom

FROM: Tim Hyde

SUBJECT: Public [ss te March 18 - 22, 1995
FIELD PROGRAM
EDA

Alabama -- Congressman Bud Cramer (D) responded to Brice Sterling's FDA letter on
2/15/96. Congressman Cramer's response was generally favorable, referring to the
possible economic impact the regulations would have on the South's ecanomy. He
‘specifically cited the FDA's impact on car facing, and mentioned that he ig co-
spongoring a bill at prohibits the regulation of tobacco sponsorship of professional
motor sports.

{daho ~- SR leader Ward Sinsal traveled to Caldwell to attend a Town Hall meeting
being held by US Sen, Larry Craig. Ward asked the Senator his feelings on the FDA,
Kessler, and how he felt about the FDA and it's attempt to go around Congress and
ass regulations that are in effact as strong as laws passed by Congress. Craig replied
that while he is not a supporter of the tobacco industry, the FDA is too big, it is an
agency out of control, and it has no right circumventing the will of Congress with
regulations that should be decided by elected officials.

‘STATE AND LOCAL ISSUES

Florida -- Ken Walton spoke to approximately 70 of the wholesale tobacco and candy
dealers at a breakiast meeting on 3/20. He and Ron Morris of T! discussed the status
of the Medicaid third party liablity bil! and how best they could assist in the overall
effort. The breakfast meeting was part of their annual “Day en the Hill" where they take
goody bags to members of the legislature.

In addition, a dinner with tbacoo growers is scheduled on 3/27 in Madison, FL. This is
Tight on the edge of Sen. Pat Thomas’ district, a key vote who is currently supporting
the governor. Growers are already writing letters and making calls and this effort will be
inoreased at the meeting,

In anticipation of a potential ‘tobacco only" bill being jammed through the legistature,
the industry team has asked for help recruiting potential spokes-people to testify
against the bill at upcoming committee hearings. Walton and Bob Burnette have lined
Up three people who are ready to appear at a moment's notice.

RJR0000000507107042
70057 0185

f28b gp0es
