@«

From:
Date:

2070361599 Page 1
Media Inguity tor Martin, Mi

Daragan, Karen; Martin, Matia, McCormick, Brendan; Merlo, Ellen; Rainey, Kuren

Carraro, Tara
Tue, Dee 13, 1994 1:04 PM
Mr, Michae] Horowitz

Phone No. (718) 642-2718

Media Outlet:

Location:
Topte:

Deadline:

FW: Spring Creek Sun
Starett City, Brooklyn
Vallone

3:00 p.m, today

This ceporter is an anti and has his mind made up about the type of piece he's going to write.
This is a small community paper in southeast Brooklyn. The reporter has questions lik
‘Why is PM against the bill?

‘Why can’t people just smoke in their homes? Why do we need areas in restaurants and
‘ouldoor stadiums for people to smoke? Are we trying to say that its not harmful lo be
around smokers? He then mixed us up with RIR and said that if smoking is so unharmful,
why are we developing a smokeless cigarette. [informed hin that he must be thinking of
RJR and he then went on to say we must be doing it oo and why are we doing it and [told
him that we don’t comment on the competition or on developmental issues and he wasn't
happy with that answer so he'll probably raise it again. 1 asked him if he had spoken to any
restaurant owners since they were the one's that would be most hurt by this issue and he said
he had plenty af testimony that was fumished to him by SmokeFree educational services and
as far as be could see, all the prominent restaurants in NYC were for the ban, 1 gave him the
snames of some that Were opposed and asked if he'd like their names and numbers and he suid
no, I then said, "So [assume your in favor of this type of legislation and he was silent. He
said he wouid write about it objectively and I said that based on the questions he was asking,
Lassume you've got an opinion and he just said that he's asked some tough questions of the
‘other side as well, Te then changed his tune and said that if gave him the name and
numbers of | of 2 restaurant owners opposed to the ban that he would call. Told him that I
‘would call him back with the info and that these restaurant owners think the cunent
legislation works just fine. He then asked if we think the current legislation works just fine,
why were we opposed fo il in 1988? Bottom line ~ The guy is a jerk. Does anyone want to
call nim back?

