‘Aprl20, 2000

Ken Watehurst
Patti Itermann

Fe: Media Buying On-Line Ad Space

Buynng ad space or media on-iine has been the subject of recont articles appearing in trade
publications. It is important to dating media buying when investigating this opportunity. Media is
a broad tarm encompassing several types of advertising media, including broadcast TV, cable
TY, ratio, outaFhome, online and print. The only mecka available to cigarette advertisers is
print and limited signage placemsnt. As of this date, we have chosen not to go on-line with our
advenising, Media buying is the executional phase of a media plan, long after stralegic decisions.
involved in bulking a plan have been made

{recently went ending and investigated the sites mentioned in ede aticles a¢ seling ad space
ning. Importantly, these sites sell ad space on-line and do nol include alt the considerations
involved in making a decision ta buy the space. Most of these sites have been in oxistenco a
shor time; bul the premise of how they work has existed for years.

Batore tooking at spectic sts, i Is important to understand how each advertising medium is
sold. Advertising time In a broadcast environment is limited by programming neads as well as
demand. A program with high ratings is in demand, and the price goes up based on that
demand. Unsokl airtime is dead space and must be filed. As eittime approaches and invantory
remains unsold, the price goes down, Broadcast is disposable inventory with a specific shal Ife,
and has always been sold in a bidding environment. In ths situation, on-tne bidding/seles would
be a workable solution for suppliers with inventory that nesds fo be said quickly. Cutof-home is
also a fixed commodity with a limited number of locations. Posting unsaid inventory an a site fs a
‘method of offering inventory to Quyers that might otherwise go unsokd

A.uniqus feature about print media is that its not a fixed commodity and does not have
disposable inventory. ‘The number of printed pages in a printed vehiole is imitless and is based
‘on 2 combination of advertising and editorial demand. Ahhough print rate nagotiation is an
important part of media planning and buying, “unsold” pages ate non-existent; theretore, the need
to ill space is not as immediate as the need to fill airtime on TV ar radio.

‘Newspaper and Magazine are the two primary advertising vehicles in print. These bwo vehicles
have a unique function and are planned and bought by different methods. The decisions involving
‘me placement of advertising space in a magazine have a significant human element, Magazine
ad rates are highly negotiable as is positioning. Positioning, and to some extent, rates, are
Negotiated with a speciic magazine representative on an issue by Issue basis. Our bost modi,
planners prove thameelves on both prios and delivery of a medivm, which olfers us the most
advantageous environment for our advertising and the right audience.

Tho decision 1o use newspapers as an advertising medium isa choice ofthe mecium belng ight
fora brand. Markels are then defined and the process is simply securing a ist newspapers in
‘the defined geography, rates and ensuring the newspaper has reproduction capabilities 10
‘2ecommodate our needs, The buying function for both magazines and newspapers is sicily tho
‘executional portion ofthe process.

{visited 4 different on-jine buying sttes._Allfour sites primarily offared broadcast and internet
advattising. Adguction.com offered only laternat advertising inventory with an option of
contacting them to search for inventory in other media to tthe advertiser's needs.
uymedia.com and Broadcastspots.com offer only broadcast advertising. Adoutlel.com uses an
inventory replenishment system that alows a supplier to lima the amount of inventory they place
on the ste at anyone time. Like Adauction.com, lis is more applicable to advertising media that

RJR1137030877

70007 3499

OL BBL2S

