Draft Relense
CONFIDENTIAL NASCAR PROPOSED JOINT RELEASE

DAYTONA BEACH, Fla, (October 77, 1699) — Fi. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. has decided
that its Winston brand's NASCAR sponsorship of the NASCAR Winston Racing Series, the weskly
short track racing program that features nearly 100 race tracks in 36 states around the country,
cannot continue after the conclusion of the 1999 season. Winston's snonsorship of the NASCAR
Winston Cup Series and NASCAR Winston Wast Series will not be affected.

‘The NASCAR Winston Racing Series includes 94 tracks In 10 regions, providing hometown
competitors with local, regional and national recognition, The series efso offers competitors a $1.4
milion point fund, which has been sustained by RJR's Winston brand as part of ite overall
NASCAR sponsorship.

“it ig egsential that RUR sponsorships fully comply with the letter and the spirit of the Master
Settlement Agreement between tobacco manufacturers and state attorneys general,” said Rick
Senders, president of RUR's Sports Marketing Enterprises. “it is unfortunate that we have to
relinquish our involvariant in this great series after 26 years as the title eponsor. We have reached
the conclusion, however, that the NASCAR Winston Racing Series was unlikely to fulfil the
Yequiremants of the Master Settlement Agreement due to longstanding rules regarding driver
igi.”

While Winston's NASCAR Winston Cup and NASCAR Winston West sponsorships are
permitted under the provisions af the MSA, the NASCAR Winston Racing Series traditionally is a
developmental and entry level base for competitors into NASCAR. The nature of this series creates
an opportunity for young participants and under the MSA, 18- andi 17-year-olds are too young to
participate in brand-name sponsorships.

“RUR and its Winston brand would have liked fo continue this portion of our NASCAR
sponsorship,” Sanders said, “It was decided, however, that making permanent rule changes to
exclude 16- and 17-year-old drivers from the series altogether - and thus comply with the MBA —
‘was not in the best interest af the sport, which servas as the grassroots program for NASCAR, As
2 resuit, wo are ending our sponsorship of the NASCAR Winston Racing Series, and are working
through an orderty transition plan to disengage from this perl of our NASCAR sponsorship.”

According to Mike Helton, senior vice president and chief operating officar for NASCAR, the
NASCAR Winston Racing Series is the foundation of NASCAR. racing, “Winston and NASCAR
hhave built a short track program that {s second to none in this country,” said Helton. “This important

g
g
s
&
Py
g
&

-AJROOG0001523001 988
70048 8645

