RJ. Reynolds Tobacco Company

Statement in Response to Dr, Kessles’s Appearance before U.S, House of Representatives
Subcommittee on Health and the Euvironment, Committee on Energy and Commerce.

Jone 21, 1994

11 was apparent today that nicotine levels in cigarettes and the use of ammonia in provessing
twohaceo are of great interest tothe Food and Drug Adorinistration, When they vished RJ.
Reynolds Tobacco Company facilities and talked te our staff this spring. ihe FDA staff did not
ask about our use oF ammonia. Had they, ar anyone clse, asked we would have been glad to cll
tem that

© RJ. Reynolds Tobacco uses only 0 minuscule
processing agent in one aspect of its producti
lobseco.

1ount of ammonium hydeowide as
the formation of reconstinted shect

© Digwinoniues phosphate is also used as a processing agent and flavor exhancer in the
formation of some of our reconstituted sheet tobacco used in certain brands.

© Ammonia compounds used as processing aids are used in low amounts and either are
removed completely from the finished product or are removed to suck au extent that they
or their conversion produets arc found in a finished product any at insignificant levels
and do not have any techisical or function effect in the finished product.

© Diammoniun phosphate and or its conversion producis are also expected to be found only
at insignificant levels in the finished product.

© Ammoria occurs naurally in tobacco, and the amount found in smoke is the samme in.
cigarettes containing reconstituted sheet tobacco processed with oF without ammonia,

© In feet, our analysis ofthe nicotine in emoke or the transfer rate into smoke indicate there is
no difference between cigarettes containing reconstituted sheet tobacco made with or
withou! eamonia compounds.

© As Dr, Kessler's stajement indicates, the result of using ammonia compounds is to reduce the.
‘sugar contcat in tobacco, which smoothes out the taste.

© In addition, the use of ammonia compounds seduces ceriain comroversial smoke constituents
identified by the Surgeon General.

SEZ LeETS

RJRO000000525021890_
70024 2455

