The Effects of Upholstery Fabric Properties on Fabric Ignitabilities
by Smoldering Cigarettes.

by Leslie S. Lewis and Michael J, Motion
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company

P.O. Box 1487

‘Winston-Salem, N.C. 27102-1487

and

Yello Norman, Arthur M. thrig, and A. Leonard Rhyne
Lotillard Tobacco Company

420) English Street

Greensboro, N.C, 27401

Abstract:

Upholstery fabrics for residential use were obtained from various fabric shops and
‘manufacturer's catalogs. Screening with four experimental cigarettes of varying design
showed that 316 of the fabrics would smolder when in contact with af least one of these
cigarettes, By the NIST cotton duck mockup method, two of the cigarettes display “low”
ignition propensity and two show “high” ignition propensity. Further investigation of
upholstery fabric ignition bchavior with dhese four experimental cigarettes showed again,
however, that cigarette ignition propensity rankings are dependent on fabric
characteristics. The number of fabrics thet showed ignition propensity rankings opposite
to the NIST test “ranking” was similar to the number that agreed with the NIST ranking.
‘That is, on these fabrics, cigarettes of “low” ignition propensity by the NIST test showed
Tom ignitions than cigareties of “high” ignition propensity by the NIST test, These
results are consistent with those of a previously published study with a smaller set of
ignitable fabrics. Fabric weight was a key factor in determining fabric ignition behavior,
since two of the cigarettes showed increasing ignition propensity and two showed
<decreasing ignition propensity with fabric weight, For the majority of fabrics, however,
cigarette design was unimportant in determining ignition behavior; that is, no differences
4n ignition behavior were observed with the different cigarette designs. The physical and
‘chemical properties of the cotton duck fabrics of the NIST test are such that those fabrics
represent only a fraction of the ignition behaviors observed with “real-world” upholstery
fabrics. More than one type of fabric ignition behavior must be represented in a valid
cigarette ignition propensity test,

zse9 zeszs

RJRCO00000527001369
70024 6136

