Kinser, Robin D.

From: Kinser, Robla D.
Sent: Monday, July 08, 2001 11:26 AM
To: on Leyden (E-mail)

Ge: Kinser, Robia D.; Gey, Jan
Subject: interim review of validation

Hi Don

''ve obtained buy-in from those whom | though! necessary you, Roethig, Tricker, von Holt, Libby) tor the concept
cof an interim review of valkiation data being sufficient before Covance begins spacimen analysis. | wanl to see the
tollowing components:

‘© Abtief description of the method:

*Asample standard curve;

‘+The LLOQ for the method:

‘* _Cheomatagrams which indicate the absence of interference from reagents and the extent of interference from

mat;

* Data indicating extent of carryover:

* Data indicating short-term stability,

= Recovery data;
= Precision data (Intraday and inter-day); and

Accuracy data,
ve attached another copy of the Covance validation template {developed by Govance with PM input (von Hol, Tricker,

Leyten, Rustemeter, Kinser). for your use at this time.

valtpeol.doc

‘My first question 10 you is are there any components you would add or detste to the above list?

| would ike for you to participate with mg in these reviews. What | envision is email and fax transmission of data
and lelephone calls between us and Covance stall. My second question is will you?

Validation protocols have been prepared and accepted by Jan Oey and me for all but the MDA analyses, and
we've received the 2” draft of that one a few minutes ago. At least one method should be ourrently finished validation. |
‘expect this activity (validation studies} to continue through mid-August. We would be evaluating validation data for eight,
analyses (acetonitrile in oxnalate and in bloods; nicotine, cotinins, 3“OH-cotinine, and their glucuronides in uring; NN
metabolites in urine; malondialdehyde in plasma and In urine; and Hb conjugates of 3- and 4-aminobiphervi.}

Call me i you like; 'm in through Thursday of this week. Bob Libby is in Richmond this waek, and I have lime with
him Wednesday a.m. If yau think some joint time wauld be valuable, yau'ra more than welcome ta jain ue. We can do a
‘phone conference with Libby il you're interested in mutual discussion af these topics but don’t want to travel for a meating
of only a lew hours.

hope you can be part ofthis activity. Feel irae lo suggest alternative approaches if | haven't captured whal you.
believe would be best.

‘And hello to Alice from Michael and me.

Robin

Robin Kinser
804-274-5905
Robin D.Kinser@pmuse. com

x
S
s
3
Py
8
Px
8
8
3
