2082039854

Venable, Bristow

‘Sykes, Linwood L.
Monday, March 20, 2000 6:31 PM

Venable, Bristow: McAlpin, Loreen; King, Vaterie A.; Thomson, Susan S.: Tumer, Rueben
Research Management Group Contract Comments

Here are my comments !| Please let me know Ifyou htave any questions. Please note that | have not reviewed the
compensation details at this point and that could drive other questionsfcomments/concerns !! Also nate - many of these
‘comments ae really business issues and nol legal questions and will therefore require resolution by Valerie/Loreen.

Adicio t

«Phase One - should we detail out estimated target dates for completion of each of the items identified? inet, what
‘are the plans for managing progress on the complation of the tasks?
Phase One; #9. It says, "Assist jo the management af external undor the." is there something missing in he

sentence? |
‘+ _nmy notes from a previous mesting, it was indicated thal Dr. Eiserburg would handle the administrative part of these

effort (Le.: Monitoring proposals, scientific administration, etc.) for one year and then il would be transitioned to PM.
Don't we need to stipulate that in this contract and indicate any required steps fa ensure an offective transition?

Article.
# Need to see the details of how we arrived at ihe $54,167 per month and the not fo exceed amounts for expense

reimbursement.

eaeeeernain some language regarding peyment retention? (kink would should protactourselies incase progress
Carre arade athe ate we eaqure grins prot not up tour expeclatone. dort 900i the contact
eee inane sould lan payments. Loaoms we would have lo terminate the agreement io stop the bleeding

«aes we cies Bat hia amount ($54,167) willean ba prorated ia completa month le nol worked (for some
reason)?
‘On the Sth line It states "..,($650,004.00) per year ...."._I think we shguid delete the ‘per year’ part so Itis more clear
Poe ae ee eanotto erceed orth prane, Gower QUSD

+ alae raed t elnuate Sneuding rave! me" rthe contrac (iret paragraphy? Typical, we do nol retrburse
Fee eee al ure only lavel expenses il Inile cae, since we re peng a fat monthly rat, seems ike
Soe asad to stpaate bang oes clear hal tha expense remnoureement amount ony icudes (evel

expenses and nol travel time Il

< sad change one year to wo year fr bh the record retention and eutghis para, Get (omsy)

Article 14

+ Dowe need to give the consuttant the right to terminate for convenience? Has he specifically asked for this?
= Third paragraph, item (i) - whal is this termination fe9 of $480,000 designed to cover? Why do we need to offer this

up?

Artiote 42

+ Please ensure that Risk Management has reviewad this clause end is comfortable with the requirements.

‘That's it- please let me know your thoughts. Thanks IIf

Linwood Sykes
47370
