—ovgiatieesage—
From” Laufon Galistn SMTPourona@eauseatectie.rg
Sane Fay, Gaspar 5, 2001 3:28 at

tor ony Femara

Sumpet: Cause Emecae Update

Deer Henny,

“Thank you for your email. Samy it fook an extra day to got back to you -- we had huge ovent lastnight which
coquited extra slaff as it wag moved fram downtown dus fo the WTC tragedy. Claarly the email update (ha email
which crossed In the mall) di not answer all of your questions, so please coneicer nis an addendum to thal update. |
have copied eoch of your questions into he email and will write an answer directly underneath. Please dont hesitate
10 omnad or call with any other questions or comments.

id the WTC disaster affect your schedule in NYC?
Despite tha WTC disaster, the NYC schedule is moving along 9 planned. We did actually convene the praviously
‘Scheduled NYC Agvieory Board meeting on Thursday, September 13th. Only one of the Advisory Board members
{Wah Yoon from PASE) was unable to attend {since they had no office) bul we did update him after te meeting,

Iwas « very productive although slighlly abbreviated meeting. As { mantioned in tha update, he Advisery Board
<Gecited to focus on program evakialion and we cama Io agreoment on proposed autcames and format forthe
warkshop.

Hilly immediately began to research an appropriate frahver. We have contacted with Kim Sabo, PhD. of Innovation
Network and fer colleague, Anta Baker, PhD to conduct Ihe workshop. We had Raped to schedule the warkshop for
the third week in October bul dus to scheduling eonficts, the workshop is being held on Monday. November Sth
ington.

We are unsure of haw ne WTC disaster might afc allendance but wil have a betlr sense whon after we have stl
{he insiteions oul an Montiay

Ironically, me affects of the WTC disasle: may be strongest in the other cities as it slowed Cause Effective down abit
and hindered our ably to move things forward at the sama pace.

Tha PA Youth Smoking Prevention department has now made significant grante in Phil, Columbus and San Antonio
{to now-proft youth-serving organizations. Pleaga ask us for informallon on grantees in those ciies as

ry

AVZZSELSEOZ
