Fram: Seeman, Jetey |
Sere Thuraany, Sepembe 02,1809 1:94 Pi
Tor Upowice. Pater

Ge: Hausanann, Hans

Sabet: Preps een

Here 1s frst drafl [or one sel of experiments:
Background

Assertions continue to be made in the scientific erature, in negulstory
proceedings, in various litigation matters, and in the media and ont the internet that
tobacco companics use various ingredients, including ammonia compounds, to
‘manipulate the amount, the form, and effect of nicotine that is delivered to the
smoker, Que of the few experimental studies which is used to support these
assertions is the work of Pankow[Liang, 1996 #277][Pankow. 1997
4¥276\[Pankow, 1999 #503]. In this work, ETS and MS sarnples were collected
and used (o determing (10 calculate) gas-particle partitioning of nicotine. One
assertion of Pankow and his co-workers is that ammonia in smoke increases by
100-fold the amount of nicotine in the gas phase. Further, Pankow asserts that
this increases the bioavailability of nicotine to the smoker.

Objective

Key to Pankow’s experiments is the use of an ETS sample as a “conirol”
for a low or no-ammonia smoke particle sample, The Pankow resutis indicated
that, for the BTS sample, the nicotine was removed from the pad ut a very slow
rate, leading to a very low vahic calculated for nicotine in the yas phase, One
hypothesis is that the ETS sample, having already lost 295% of the nicotine. has
its residual nicotine in a very non-volatile form, perhaps even a highly acidic
cavironment,

Suggested Studies

Collect MS and ETS on Teflon membrane filters following Pankow
procedures.

Collect MS and ETS on Cambridge filters following Pankow procedures.

Determine acid/base character of samples (including pH of aquoous
extracts, nature and quantity of acids and buses present).

Determine is any ammonia eomponnds are present,

Evaluate the question; Does % evaporation change with time for the
different pads (filters)? That is, does the tate of nicotine desorption change?

2078463850
