Patskan, George .

From: Patskan, George J
Sent: Tuesday, April 14, 2000 12:04 PM

To: Aeiningnaus, Wolt

Ge: Catmines, Edward L.: Solana, Rick P.; Nixon, Gerry M.
Subject: Lactic Acie! Special testing for ingredients

Wott,

(talked to Fick yesterday about some things thal came up at the recent SRAC meeting and wanted te make sure we were
clear about where things sland on lactic acid and special testing for ingredients,

Lactic Acid:

We have the following information aboul the test results with lactic acid: the presentation made at INBIFO on January 21,
£2000, tha draft chemisiry report and the final cylotox report. We are walting on tha presentation overheads from 24 Jan
regarting the nicctina metabolism studies, the Ames rapart and tha inhglation report.

‘There are many interesting findings in the information that we have seen so far, We clearly need to make a
‘comprehensive evaluation ofall of ihe data so tat we (PI and INBIFO togelher) can determine it additional studies need to
be conducted or i! we have sufficient information to make recommendations to product development,

‘Togo forward | think that PI nocds to get the inlormation that wa dan! yat have (noled above plus ceports on the things

nicoline metaholism if separete reports would witten on that research). We should then set up a line to discuss this
information. | know we hed planned io discuss the nicotine metabolsm stuies that we did have time to discuss very
thosoughly on 21 Jan at one ol the weskiy toxicology meatings and we never quite gol around fo thal due to scheduling
cconfics. Parhaps we should do this sooner than later; but maybe having all of the inlormation together and having one
siscussion would be more efficient

An asigo:
‘The presentations made by the INBIFO and CRC scientists are vory good, however, its ifficult for me fo do.a good job of
analyzing this amount of information in a caretul way without having all of tha data on paper, preferably a report format.

Special testing for ingredionte:

My understanding is that we agreed to include in our festing of ingradients any spacial losts that were deemed appropriate
to-add te our standard battery whan tha Itarature indicated that need. As an axample, # an ingredient showed changes in
renal function whan given by the oral route we would Took at that data andl decide if we needed ta include renal function
tests in ihe inhelation study. Of course, in order to do this we should plan to review the literature (write the waite paper)
prior to the development of the test plan for that ingredient. This will be lactored int our planing for these losts. If
something is identified inthe literature then Pl will communicate that information to INBIFO‘CRG tor further evaluation in
terms ol what lasting could be conducted. Then a discussion between Pl and INBIFO/CRC should take place and the
proper test protocols written.

Please let me know if we need to further clarity any of this,

Thenis,
George

Philo Mortis USA Confidential
OC CODE: PD622

6bo0gszg0z
