woes
eptember 25, 2000

In Court

Judge Kessler Dismisses Two DOJ Claima

Ta partial vicwry for te industry, US. District Judge
Gladys Kessler on September 284 in her ruling on the
Department of Justice (DOJ) lawsuit dismissed elaims
under the Medical Care Recovery Act and the Medical
Secondary Payor provision, a law involving secondary
‘payor insurance (o recover Medicare expenses
incurred in treating people wilh alleged smoking-
related illnesses. Judge Kessler, however, ruled that
the government could proceed itz claims under RICO
Act. Judge Kessler is leaving disgorgement of past
profit in 2s an available remedy if the government is
able to prove elements of the case that it alleges,
Goldman Sachs analysis believe the ruling is 8
“positive step towards disimegration of aggregated
Jawsuits” and reduces any threats that the DOS case
poses for the industry. ‘While the case is not scheduled
10 goto tial until 2003, analysts believe the case will
be dismissed (AP 9/28, Goldman Sachs 9/28, Credit
Suisse First Boston 9/28),

‘Two Charged With Stealing Trial Plan

‘A Quinnipiac College law student Said Famaj, 27, and
his brother Yeazid Farraj, 24, have been charged in
Federal cova in Brookiyn with stealing and trying to
sell an asbestos victims fund's confidential “ial plan”
compiled by law firm Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe
(OH&S). OH&S is one of the law firms representing
the Manville Personal Injury Settlement Trust, which
is suing cigarette companies for reimbursement of
alleged smoking-related illnesses involving workers
exposed tc asbestos. Said Fartaj, who worked as an
wern at OH&S this past May-June, reportedly ied 10
sett dhe 400-page plan for $3 million, oF 0.1 peroent of
the plaintiffs $3 billion lawsuit setdement despand, 10
cigareute companies” attorneys by comuacting thern by
e-mail. The brothers were atrested in July after an
‘undercover FBI agent, contacted by a defense attorney
‘who received an unsolicited e-mail message offering
the plan from a sender by the name of “FlyGuy,” met
“FlyGuy's representative” who tumed oul to be

RJRO000001651 119858
70063 9931

‘Yeazid Farraj. Prosecutors revealed in cour papers
filed on Sepiember 20" that they were negotiating a
plea deal with the brothers. the hroxhers do not
reach a plea deal and are convicted, they coud face x
10-15 year prison term (AP 9/21, Reuters 9/21),

‘TX: Judge Diomisses Medicaid Recipients’ Suit
U.S. District fudge David Folsom of Texarkana on
September 26" dismissed a lawsuit filed in 1999 by.
smoker and Medicaid recipient Bobby Watson, who
claimed that those in Texas who received medical
assistance for alleged smoking-related illnesses
through Medicaid were emtiied 10 portion of the
State's settlement money. In his ruling, Judge Folsom
said Medicaid recipients still have a right to sue

rette companies on their own. Attomey General
John Comyn praised the ruling, saying il protects the
money the State received while recognizing the
plaintiffs" rights to pursue individual claims (AP 9/27).

CT: Supreme Court Hears Arguments On
‘Town’s Cigarette Machine Ban

‘The Conneeticut Supreme Count heard arguments on
September 27" of a case filed by vending machine
distributor Modem Cigarettes Inc. of New Haven
challenging the Orange Town Council's 1998 ban on
Cigaceite vending machines aimed at blocking cigarette
sales to minacs, Modem Cigaretes argues that the
‘machines, authorized, regulated, licensed and taxed by
the State, should not be banned by a municipality.
Attomey General Richard Blumenthal, azguing for
Orange, said the State law grams towns the right 10
add regulations as a way of preventing sale co minors.
‘A 1996 law confined the machines 10 establishments
that only allow patrons above age 21, while in other
places allowing “restrictive” vending machines which
fequire patrons to show proof of age or buy a token
from the merchant before making a purchase, The
company had sued the town after it imposed a vending
‘machine ban in 1998, Superior Court Judge Jonathan
Silbert overturned the ban in 1999, saying tha

€0%B POLES

