Wann23
ne 200

EUROPE

EU; Industry Responds To EU’s Content &
Labeling Plans
Cigareue companies are asking the Hurupean Union
CEU) to change certain tems in is directive to tighten
soles on cigarette content and labeling that are
scheduled to be discussed next week. While
generally supporting the direetiv, the companies
worry thal if the contont rules apply to exported
cigarettes as currently planned, HU jobs would be at
Fisk, Additionally, some of the propwsed labeting
changes could cause difficulties for some
mamafacwurers depending on existing colors on the
packs (Financial Times 6/8).

Cyprus: Health Minister's Ad Ban Proposal
‘Opposed
‘The nation’s advertising industzy may lose nearly 10
perecnt ofits gross revenue annually if lobacoo
advertising and sponsorships are banned, according
toan industry source. The industry spends over CP 1
mnilkion (USS 1.7 nnn) annually on advertising, The
industry's concerns grew after Health Minister Frixos
Savvides announced that he would posh for
Tegislation 19 monitor advertising until the nation’s
tobacco product advertising ban takes effect August
2001, coinciding with the European Union directive.
Mr, Savvides planned legislation would also double
the fine for violating Cyprus’s amngking banx from CP
‘500 (USS 836) to CP 1,000 (USS 1,670), in addition
10 irpposing wp to six months imprisonment,
According (o a Cyprus Anti-Cancer Society survey,
22 pereent of the respondents said advertisements
affected their decision to smoke, while 43 percent
believed sinoking made them "feel more attractive”
(Cyprus Mail 6/1).

Ireland: Industry Opposed To Ad Ban

‘Health Minister Micheal Martin's decision to ban
Cigarelle adventsomonts in ie print media beginning
uy 1 has angered the rsh tobacco industry. Trade

co he British compotitors of irish conpani
‘Though Britain hes initiated its own advert
ithas not been enforced as itis currently faci
challenges. Meanwhile, tobacco product
advertisements can continue to appear in British
publications which circulate in Ireland, whereas they
‘ne banned in Irish publications (Mirror 61}.

Romania: Call To Halt Monopoly Sale

‘A group of European cigarcuc makers have asked
Romania Primo Minister Muyur Isareseu to stop the
agriculuure minister's plan wo sell the country's state-
‘owncd cigarette monopoly (SNTR) for US$ 45
nillion to Inter-Agro, & local commnaitics trading
company that is owned by a former captain in the
country’s communist-ra secret police. Greek-based
Leaf Tobacco A. Michailides (LTAM) had bid USS
167 milton in cash and future investment, LTAM
President Alexander Michailides said, “This decision
is. colossal and tragic mistake, The companies in
he consortium have a strong wack record of
investmem in easvern Europe, while Inter-Agro is a
‘newcomer to the tobacco industry.” SNTR, which
has a 45 percent of the Romanian cigareue market,
has beon sieadily losing market share 1o multinational
cigarette companies that now operate in Romania
inancial Times 674),

Russia: Popular Brands In St. Petersburg
‘According 1 a survey conducted by a SL Petersburg,
Russia-bascd market research agency Ekro-RG, the
most popular eigarelte brand among the city’s

1, China: Hosied Major Tobacco Exhibition . .2 smokers was Saywz-Apolto, preferred by 14.6 percem
2, Cambodia: Cigarette Ads Growth Strong. . 3 ‘of smokers, followed by Petr (12 percent) and
3, Zimbabwe: Tobacco Farms to be Taken Nonth Star (9.1 percen) {Detovol Petersburg 5/30), gy
8
8
2
g
g
RJR0000001739096976
70043 8368

hae
