2080930175

McComb, Andrew =

King, Doug

Tuesday, Seplomber 12, 2000 4:48 PM

Garguilo, Thomas M.; McComb, Andrew; Toomey, Robart F.
lopline resuits of Mort GID grote

Last Thuraday in-depth Interviews were conducted in Eng'ewwood NY to ald in optimizing the dasign of Merits inspack GID
(Government Issua Identilicalion) material, Participants were adult smokars who smoke Philp Morris brand cigarattes.

‘Several GIID "owsent* concep! variations were shown and there ware two key areas of focus:

+ "Outserts* were sanduviched between mork-cigaratte packagas and callophane wrapping - participants wore exposed
to four front panel variations each having a different message. First focus: of tha four frant panel vaslations, which one
Ip claimed to be most appealing/cause participants to open the "outset

» Once appeal of the frant panel was discussed, respandants were chow two variations of the form. Seoand focus:
what language bast communicates how to complete the form and communicates why the information is requested.

KEY LEARNINGS:

+ The front pane} shoutd have large print and indicatefotter a reason for adult smokers to investigate further.
‘The two front parel variants wilh larger print was stated by most 1 be those most kely to catch thet attention. While
most stated that they would open the “outsert" due To curiosity, many also claimed that they would complete the form.
‘only there was albenefl for them in doing 80.

+ Wording om the front panel such as “easy as 1-2-3" should be avolded. Several smokers stated that phrase
suggested an application and that fling outa form was not appealing.

+ The torm itself should be of a three-step design, request a photocopy of a driver's leense (vs. Government
Issue ID}, and iramodiately indicate why the information is being requested. Wrrlo none of the participants
slated a preference toward elther the 2-step or 4-step process, many favored the larger print in the 3-step design.
‘Some were confused ovar the maaniing of ‘goverment issued ID, but non voioed concem over ‘overs ieerse",
Some thought copying a ctivers leans referrad fa transposing information ta the form. Using the wording
“photocopy” should eliminate this confusion. Mest paricipents Who understaod what was belng asked of thern
avestioned wy PMUSA is asking fortis information.

+ We should clarity the purposa of the execption bax step, a9 if apo2ars thal wa neod fo overcomo concoms over
privacy issues. Among thoss understanding what this stap was asking for, some felt that PMUSA was just trying to
{got more information about them... what businass of Phiip Morris if am maniac’ Therefore, we may want to
‘leery communicate that i's purpose is for verification purposes.

A written report will be issued shorty

Doug
13208
