2074452134
Eliz, CathyL.QWSA)

From: Donald Leyden (istesail@rivnetnel}

Sent: Tuasday, May 25, 1999 10:26 AM

Ta: Robin Kinser, Roger Welk; Cathy Elis; Ticker Anthony; Hans~Juergen Haussmann: Kobi
‘Takada; Pater Linowicz; Frank Gullotta; Ken Shafer

Ge: Sanders.Edward@pmint.ch

Subject: Comments on my suggestions

Greetings,

‘There were a few comments conceming my suggestions for preparation of
the draft materials by the task force on Biomarker use In compensation.

“The comments related malay to references. A major concern is that
itis more traditional to use the frst author name only forthe in
text citations. | agree wih thie, However, in our drafts, there
isnot sufficient information to know what each individual author
sneans by, for example, Banowitz, 1992, and Benowiz, 19928. One
author could use one combination, and another author the other.
‘When combining sections of the document, ws wil naad ta ba mora
specific about which reference is which. The only way | know ko do
this isto bull that information into the criginat citations in
the document. Onea the full document Is completed and references
properly sorted, we can then go back and reduce the number of
‘authors cited in tha text if we wish to do that. Therefore, |
think we should compromise that In text ctations are to be given
as Author’, Aulhor? et al, 19x, with publications by the Author‘
in the same year ax Author’, Author? at al, 19a. Tha bold
letters. here are for emphasis and not to be used In the text
materials. Once editing of referenoes is complete, we can then
delete Author2 from each cited reference. Even with this approach,
| have some concem about the possibilty of confusion over the
frequent co-authors such a6 "Benowitz, Jacob...” Dut think these
vill be few enough fo sort out Ifyou think there Is @ chance for
‘confusion such as two papers in the same year by the fist two
authors, ten it hres names. Vhope my molves are bit more
* There were also questions and objections to the way that!

suggested the journal citation in the reference ist, To meet
these objectinns, | suggest that wa ravise the ctalion suggestion
along the following lines:

© The journal tle isto ba given in tates abbreviated

accofding to Index Medlous
‘0 The cilafion would be in the form J. Abbreviation Vol: pp-pp.
© In the reference ist citation all author names are ta be
given.

‘An example is

Bergstrom, M., Nordberg, A, Lunell, E., Antoni, G. and Langstrom,
B., (1995) Regional daposition of inhaled 11C-nicotine vapor in the
human allway as visualized by positron emiesion tomography, Cli
Pharmacol Ther, 57:309-317.

Inmy experience, some editing wil sil be required and It's not
likely thatthe ceference slye will lease everyone. 1 urge you to
‘compromise some of your principles in reference style to help faciltate
‘citing the fral document. This fs an excelent opportunity 10

Practice the team skills we have all eamed

Finally, ag much as | lice reference management software, wa cannot
1
