From: Sah Renato
Sent ‘Thursdy, August 06, 2001 11:95 AM 2085263021
%e ‘es, Dav Hn, Vie Daragan, Karen {PNRAC

eo: Panih, Shove: Weeder Ells; Said, Rane

Subject: Slave'sSpoect

Dear Vic and David,

As agreed during our conference call, am providing you a draft outline for Steve's speech on October 8
fer your comments and approval. (August 10-24)

‘Once we are all comfortable with the outtine, | will have a first draft of the speech liself genarated. Again, |
will forward this to you for your comments/approval unt we get it right. (August 24- September 7)

‘Then, we can have Steve take a look at it for his comments/oorrectionstfinal approval. (September 7-24)

Using the parameters provided during the conference call, | now provide a draft speech outine (the
assigned topic of which is Social Responsibility In an International Environment).

Best regards,

Renato

‘Speech Outline

|. Begin with a definilion of Social Responsibility within the context of (research based) societal
expectations of a responsible intemational tobacco company.

4. a perspective on how societal attitudes and expectations evolved over the
years

landmark evants (posilve and negative) that help shape the current
environment

+. what the research tells us

II, Relate what we have done to respond to these expectations In the areas of:

sp
self-imposed restrictions: internal marketing code
‘Support for national regulation:

support for WHO-FCTC

corporate philanthropy

Ni, Emphasize that this fs just our (humble) share of what can and should be done by an entire range of
stakeholders ~ and that logether, more can be done so that society's expectations can be responded {9
more effectively and comprehensively.

a. fighting contraband
b. Uiee company agreement as a significant first step
©. global VSP cooperation

Iv. Segway to an even broader definition of social responsibility -- to Includa pressing global issues not
necessarily related to tobacca ~ but which socletles worldwide would fe responelble multinationals like
us fo assert leadership on, We can then discuss our efforts (not planelil) on issues like:

a. child labor
'. environmental protection and sustainable development
a
