Vol. 21, No. 76 November 16, 1999
Reynolds Tobacco Hails Appeals Court Ruling

Labor union health funds and insorance companies sving the tobacco industry received another
major setback this week from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in Chicago, the
fourth {ederal appeals court to nule that third-party payer suits have no legal merit.

The unanimous decision, issucd late Monday, dismissed two separate Tawsvits that had been
consolidated for appeal. One lawsuit was brought by Blue Cross and Blue Shield insurers in six
states, while the other was brought by a number of union health care trust funds.

“in writing the decision for the court, U. 8. Circuit Judge Frank Easterbrook clearly saw through
the plaintiffs’ effors to strip away and circumvent the tobacco companies’ traditional legal
defenses,” said Thomas F. McKim, assistant general counsel for RJ. Reynolds Tobacco Co.
“‘Turies have repeatedly rejected efforts 10 find the industry liable for various injuries alleged to
be smoking related,”

In this regard, Judge Easterbook wrote: “The outcome of smokers’ suits is why the Funds and
Blues want to sue in their own names: they choose antitrust and RICO because, in the Blues’
words, ‘assumption of risk, contributory negligence and similar defenses are not pertinent.’ This
is exactly why plaintiffs must lose. A third-party payor has ao claim if its insured did not suffer a
tort.”

McKim also commented: “The court's analysis spotlighted flaws in these lawsuits that are
‘comnton 10 the svit filed against the tobacco industry by the Department of Justice on Sept. 22,
such as allegations that the insurance companies and trust funds were unaware of the health risks
associated with smoking.”

Judge Easterbrook points out that insurance companies “...have on their staffs physicians with
ready access not only the Surgeon General’s conclusions and medical databases, but also direct
access to information about health costs. Of all entities in society, insurers have the best
information about the relation between smoking and health problems.”

RJRO000001531069977

70029 3136

20ge SEszg
