00-42
‘October 20, 2000

— WHO Treaty Negotiations: On October 16% during opening
SPECIAL THIS WEEK... ff statements of the World Health Organization's (WHO) week-long

presentation and “digcussion” of its proposed Framework Convention on

1 US Tobacco Ween Tobacco Controt (FCTC), director-general Dr. Gro Harlem Brundtland

+ Leaf Bullen 00-21 ‘urged negotiators representing the WHO's 191 member states to

{ Lagislatve Balleinoo-34 || support strict measures against tobacco including advertising bans, tax

increases, production cuts and controls on underage smoking. “hope

delegations will reach agreement on wording for a convention that

really can make a difference,” she said. Dr. Brundtland dismissed tobacco company offers for open

dialogue, accusing the sobacco industry of trying to “undersne” WHO's efforts, Dug he

negotiations, EU health:

+ US Tobsceo Weekly 00-42

deaths tom gmoking-rlatedilnesses. The Tocpers Constr is aoe! in the negotiations on
bebalf of 15 EU member States. Despite WHO's efforts, diplomats and analysts say the treaty is nol
likely to have teeth because many govemments are not expected to support measures pertaining to
their respective economies and world trade rules. The Cigarette Manufacturers’ Association of
Pakistan has commented that the FCTC would reduce government revenue and take away the
economic “life blood” for many residents; the Andhva Pradesh Farmers’ Forum of India said elected
governments, not a foreign agency, should control health meastres for its citizens; and Brazil's
Tobacco Planters’ Associations éaid 2.1 million citizens depend an tobacco growing. Japan Tobacco
Int spokestnan Axel Gietz said that advertising bans donot affect smoking rates, and that global tax
increases would not reduce smoking. He algo spoke against the “one size fits all” salution to tobacco
use and the “demonization” of intemational tobacco companies. Meanwhile, WHO's South-East Asian
Anti-Tobaceo Flame, traveling over the course of the year as part of the organizations campaign, arrived
in Hyderabad, India on October 14%; the flame will leave for Sel Lanka on November 15> (WA00-42).

Olher Anti-Tobacco Activities: The Sharjah Medical District in United Arab Emirates will observe
the October 21-28 Anti-Smoking Week witha “tobacco awareness” program in English and Arabic
targeting intermediate and secondary school students. @ Queensland, Australia will begin
implementing its four-year Queensland Tobaoco Action Plan in 2001, The plan, among other things,
imposes strict fines om retailers caught selling cigarettes to minors, bans point-of-sale tobacco
advertsng, nits smoking in erlosed ofGces and public paces, and controls the placement of
‘cagarette vending machines. Queer za aime
at discouraging the Australian Bites indigenous youths fran Smale through conumanity sporting
events, @British Columbia, Canada’s Health Minister Mike Famworth eid at a pharmacists conference
‘on October 13% that he supports banning cigarette sales in drug stores because. having cigarettes ina
pharmacy is “slightly oxymoronic.” @On October 5, New Jertey introduced a bill that would allow
‘municipality, local health boards or regional health commissions to ban stoking in indoor public

places (LEGO0-34). @The Uni lina
the Robert Wood lohnson Foundation to provide a counseling program to help pregnant women quit

smoking. @According to the 2000 American Dental Association (ADA)/Colgate Oval Health Trend
Survey conducted during the ADA’s dist Annual Session in Chicago, 59% of U.S. dentists counsel
patients on the alleged ora! health hazards of tobacco use (TW00-42, WA00-42).

RJRO000001025054682
70056 4786

Lolo seies
