From: Cook, Bruce A.

‘To: Lester, Frank G.; Wold, Kent L.; Cole, Ron W.; Phillips, Mike W.; Tompson, Randy
cc:

BCC:

Primary Date: 12/17/1997 8:34:17 AM

Last Modified Date: 1997-Dec-17 08:34:17

Last Touched Date:

Sent Date: 1997-Dec-17 08:33:00

1997-Dec-17 08:34:17

Subject: NJ Cigarette Excise Tax

Update report on activities follows:

Regarding the above, I've contacted the following encouraging opposition to the
increased excise tax.

Sales contacts include forwarding information to Colleen Coyle & Don Fitzgerald in the
‘home office, Information was also forwarded to the Philadephia & New York Regions.
Follow up phone calls were made to confirm receipt of flyers and talking points. Sales
regions reported that flyers had been distributed to members of the seles department that
contact retailers and wholesalers throughout the state. Contacted Nick Kurue, Key Acet,
Mer. in NI after conversation with Rory O'Rourke in the NY Region Office to discuss
strategy to get message to affected trade partners. Nick and his Account Mgrs, were
contacting all chain hts. and wholeselers to get out opposition messages from trade
partners to legislators.

‘National Associations were contacted including Natl Grocers Assn, National
Association of Chain Drug Stores, National Assn. of Convenience Stores, American
‘Wholesale Marketers Asst, Food Marketing Institute, Food Distributors Int, Petroleum
Mictss. Assn. of America, Society of Independent Gas Mitrs., & Nat'l. Assn. of Truck
Stop Operators. All were encouraged to contact their state members in NJ. Received
several follow up calls and was assured that members were being notified,

Contacted New York Assn, of Convenience Stores (Connie Crane). They have members
from NJ and were contacting them to deliver message that the tax needs to be opposed,
Also contacted Kimberly Woodard, Govt. Affairs Mgr. at McLane’s in Texas, Discussed
with her the effect that tax would have on their branch in Syracuse, N.Y. and the
customers that they service in NJ. Plan was to contact President of Syracuse Branch, who
‘would then alert accts. in NI 10 oppose the tax.

Thave contacted NY Region today to review the efforts that are being made, Rory
O'Rourke informed me that soles was extremely active in working the flyers, and that
Sales reps were irate about news they read today, and have stepped up their efforts even
more to get retailers to voice their opposition, I've placed a call to Dean Duling, Vice
Chairman, Quick Chek Food Stores, Inc., and neighbor of C. Whitman to seek help with
the fight (Tm awaiting return call). I wall continue to call contacts today and tomorzow to

JROD00000015014584

70013 8685

2eng £6225

