November 16, 1998

Dear Fellow Employees:

A tentative agreement hetween representatives of the state Attorneys General and four major tohacco-
companies 10 scttic the Medicaid lawsuits was announced today.

The tentative agreement will be given to all Atlorneys General and other tobacco companies for review:
and possible approval, This process should (ake approximately one weck to ten days. If a sufficient
number of states approve, the agreement will be finalized.

| want (0 explain to you why Reynolds Tobacco decided to enter into the tentative agreement, While far
from perfect, it has been deiermined to be in the best long-torm interest of the company,

‘The Medicaid cases filed in approximately 40 states present an enormous threat (0 our business, Even
though we have had some success in dismissing  fow of the cases and portions af several others, the
sheer number of cases and financial risk inherent in these lawsuits has been judged 10 be unacceptable.

Since the defeat of the McCain bill, there has been little, if any, indication that Congress will ever adopt
national resolution of tobacco policy. 1. also became clcar that at least two of our competitors would
sign an agreement with the Attorneys General with or without RJR, This meant that RJR, either alone or
with one other company, would have lo defend the remaining state Medicaid cases. Despite the
phenomenal job our attomeys have done, the burden and risk of trying these eases as a single defendant
‘was just nol acceptable, Even if we won all cases scheduled for trial within the next year, we would
ccontinne to face years of litigation, risking the fate of our company on each case while our competitors
focused on selling cigarenes.

“The majority of the tentative agreement deals with payments to the stales (o resolve the litigation. As
‘with previons slate settlements, it also includes certain advertising and marketing restrictions, Outdoor
and transit advertising will be banned as well as use of any brand-logo items. However, our current
brand sponsorships can continue for three years. After that, we will have the option Lo sponsor one event
or event series cach year. There is no prohibition on brand sponsorship of events held in age-restricted
venues. The agreement does not impose restrictions on our abilily to compete within retail outlets.

‘The options were clear: Years of protracted litigation with the Auorneys General or an agreement that
Permits us to focns on competing in the marketplace.

‘We have made RIR a stronger company over the past few years, but we continue to operate in a ficrcely
competitive industry. And now, we may have to compete under a new set of rules.

“The marketplace challenges we face are going to require the best from all of us. We are going to have to
be ereative and quick, and we are going to have (o work tirelessly to manage our costs as effectively as
we can,

am confident that we will compete successfully, because ] belicve that you are as commited as I am lo
‘meeting the challenges Facing us,

RJR0000000056001 124
‘JOD5S 5222

ybzg 6z0ES
