Pubes forthe members of RIR PAC

RACES TO WATCH

‘The outoome of a few seats in the Congress and in state legislalures coukl greatly mfivence RUAT'S prospects in
the next several years. Here are some af the more interesting ones thal may significantly affedl us.

U.S. House of Representatives. All 435 seats are up for election.

Republican
Republican Democrat Margin
Incumbents (pts 2 independents) 222 at att
Members leaving the House:
Retiring v 3 14
Running for other ofice 8 4 2
Defeated in Primary 1 2 4
Resigned 1 ° 4
Deceased A a a
Total 8 0 as
‘Arkansas 4” Disticl. Incumbent Hep. Jay Dickey (R} vs. state Sen. Mike Ross (0). Rep, Dickey has won with

‘comfortable margins in previous contests, but Sen. loss is giving him a run for his money. Most commentators call
this race a toss-up.

Galtornia 27" District, incumbent Rep. Jim Rogen (R) vs. state Sen. Adam Soh {D). Rogan was one of the
House managers during President Clinton's impeachment trial. Senator Schiff was the sponsor of “ire-sate
cigarette” legislation in the state Senate recantly opposed by our Company, This race will be one of the most
‘expensive campaigns in the country this year.

Hlorida 22” District. Incumbent Rep. Clay Shaw {R) vs. stale Rep. Elaine Bloom {D). Rep. Shaw is a powertul
member of the House Ways and Means Committes and has comfortably won his pravigus races, Experts are
watching the campaign this year, because his opponent has a large campaign war chest, and because Sen, Joe
sberman's VP candidacy mey influence the ethnic vote inthis dstrct naar Orlando.

Kentucky 6" District. Incumbent Rep. Erie Fletchor (R) ve. former Rep. Soatty Bassler (D). Rep. Fletcher won his.
seat when Rep, Baesler ran unsuccessfully for the Senate. Now Sootty’s b-a-a-c-k and running hard. The
Democrats sae this seat aé one they can use fo regain the majonty inthe House. Republicans know t's one they
hava to hold,

‘Michigan 8 District, This is an open seal, as incumbent Rep. Debble Stabenow is running for the Senate. Two
state Senators, Mike Rogers (R) and Dianne Byrum (D) are facing off in a close contest. Both are well known and
wellfinanced. Because I's an open seat, both parties are spending heewily 10 grab f.

‘Qslanoma 2 District Another open seat, dus to the retirement of Rep. Tom Cobuin, Attomey Brad Carson (D)
‘won a fierce Tun-off primary September 20" and faces Andy Ewing (R), a retired auto dealer, Experts give Ewing
‘the edge for now, but acknowledge it shouls tighten up by November 7”.

glG0 6S0€S

RIRGO00001025069189
7ODB0 0011764

