\ordan BrosslefLeriardMLBA Te. Sten Watson riladMLBA2MLBA
o1sia003 04:54 PM ee
tee

‘Subject Teen Cable Summary

The attectnent (oslaw) willgive you 8 sense of our cabla buys for bath te 10 and 20. You'll note thetthe MTV.
uyis *ar-hold” (zeraad) pending the issuance of aur new craalive. We are well4epreseriad across avvaricly
ot cable nats,

Forte by Jardan Brasserf_oila/MLBA on 01109 06:59 PA

David Baro? “To: Jordan Breteler <jbrssiet@tornboo ear
doareli@nenyeik borell (Tal Salomon <lslomenOnenerk bare.corm. John Rot
cou <foidinewyork boval com> Carob Cader “coedar@nawyork bezel com>

Gouriey Hewnl <cheennewcrk pote eam. Josie Hainan
<iharme@eujert bowel car

ounag 03.ce eM ‘Subject Toon Calla Sumrary

Fey Jordan,

To followup with the conversation you had earlier with Carolyn, please
find attached a summary breakdown of the current status of the Teao
Cable buy which includes:

= 1st Quarter Flight Summary

= 2nd Quarter Flight Summary

= Combined 1st Quarter/2nd Quarter Flight Summary

Late Friday atternoon, it was brought to the Agency's attention, that
Lorillard's “Roommates” spot did noc paas clearance on the Cartoon
Network. Thig leaves Lorillard with tuo spets for rotation ("elercing
Parlor” and "sneaking Out") within this network's programming. In the
past, when ABC didn't clear “Piercing Parlor", che Agency was directed
to remove all inventory from ABC until all our spots cleared.

In deference to this, we are conceened about possibly removing Cartoon
Network, as it would he a challenge for the buyers te make up the points
lost with similar CPMs on another network. As the attached document.
shows, the Cartoon Network accounts for one of the lowest CPMs in the
Ist Quarter. We also have a large amount of dollars allocated to the
network {$216,750 - 294 of budget; totaling 67 GRPs {354 ef Budget! for
both quarters combined. We feel that it would benefit Lorillard's Youth
Snoking Prevention Progzan to make an exception in this case, and cua
“piercing Parlor" and "Sneaking Out" on Cartoon Network.

Please note, the buyers also currently have $257,593 net put aside for
the potential addition of MPV in the 2nd Quarter, as we are still
determining the timetable for the launch of Lorillard’s new creative

Please let us know if you would like to set up a time to discuss our
current position on this front.

1020 Toan Cate Sunenanyts

hanka,
-Dave

81841057
