April 30, 1996

Gontact: Kay Carter or Maura Ellis
(910)741-7645 (910)741-6996

CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. -- Ru. Reynolds Tobacco Co. is today launching
advanced marketing research in Chattanooga, Tenn., on Ecfipse, a new cigarette
that reduces second-hand smoke by nearly 90 percent.

Eciipse, which has been under development for the past three years,
primarily heats, rather than burns, tobacco. It reduces second-hand smoke by
early $0 percent. Eclipse does not leave any lingering odor, produces virtually
no messy ashes, and leaves practically no staining on walls, windows or
curtains. Eclipse is also low in ‘tar* and nicotine, with a taste that smokers
describe as smooth and rich.

“Within the next few days, many of Chattanooga's adult smokers will
receive information about Eclipse, and they'll be given the opportunity to attend a
preview in their community to learn more about the new cigaratte,” said Kevin L.
Verner, RUR'S vice president of new business development.

“Eclipse won't be available at retail, and no media advertising will be used.
But we are planning to do marketing research In small groups to find out the best
way to market this new brand,” Verner said. “We're interested in testing the
marketing techniques that wil support Eclipse, getting feedback from smokers in
reals situations, and looking at how information about Eclipse is spread by
word-of-mouth.”

“The Chattanooga marketing research will continue for an undetermined
Period of time, Verner said, Pending the outcome, RR will decide whether to
move forward with a launch of Eclipse in selected test market cities, including
Chattanooga, during 1996.

The research will be conducted on four king size styles of Eclipse - full
flavor, menthol full flavor, milds and menthol mids.

Eclipse looks tke any other cigarette, with one exception. At the lit end,
Eclipse has a small tip, made primarily of high-purity carbon, that burns and
sends warm air through the tobacco inside the cigarette,

As the heated air passes through the cigarette, it creates smoke by
releasing glycerin (a common food Ingredient that is also found in most
cigarettes), tobacco components and other flavorants in Eclipse. The cigarette’s
heating process produces smoke in much the same way that coffee is produced
by pouring hot water through coffee grounds.

JR0000000507195712

70020 2326

sees peezs
