Smith, Jan Fulton

From: RYRT Consumer Retations

Sent ‘Tuesday, May 08, 2001 4:10 PM

To: ‘Smith, Jan Fulton

Subject: FW: RJ Reynolds Consumer Relations Web Sile-Form Filled Out

FYI- Notes writer says he saw the report In May 8's on-line version of The Advocate magazine.

| Message

RURT Consumer Relations

‘Tuosday, May 08, 2001 4:03 PM

To: ‘DrewFer@excite. com

Subject: RE: RJ Reynolds Consumer Relations Web Sile-Form Filled Out

Dear Mr. Ferguson:

‘Thanks for your E-mall,

R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company's management team became aware of a wholly unacceptable and offensive document
through a news story that ran May 2, 2001. The document used language that this company finds Inappropriate and
insulling.

‘The document was created in one of our sales offices, and we have investigated its origin and distribution. Appropriate
disciplinary action was taken because the document |s antithetical to haw wa operate this company.

R.J. Reynolds Tabacco Company respects al of ts customers and greally velues thelr business. We operate this
‘company ethically and responsibly. The document does not reflect our operating philosophy or our practices
‘could hardly be more diametrically opposed.

| would ike to extend an apology, on behalf ofall employees of Rw. Reynolds Tobaoca Co., to anyone offended by the
document. We intend 0 use this Incident as a catalyst for communicating once again to our employees the management
philosophies and practices by which this company isto be run,

Sincerely,

R. J. Reynolds Tobacoo Company

=e Criginal Massag
From: DrewFer@excile.com [meilto-DrewFer@excte.com]

Sent; Tuesday, May 08, 2001 10:35 AM

To: consumergbrir.cam

Subject RJ Reynolds Consumer Relations Web Sile-Form Filled Out

fect, it

Fult Name: Drew Ferguson

Street Address: 840 W Argyla St, Apt, 209
iy: Chicago

Slat
Zip Code: 60640

E-mall Address: DrewFer@excils.com

Date of Binh: 07/26/1073

‘Smoker: yos

Daytime Phone: 773-275-1628

‘Message: As @ gay man and a smoker who swilched from Philip Morris
bproducis to R. J. Reyonlds products, | am troubled by a report that

appeared in today's (5/8/01) orvline version of The Advocate rnagazine,
which states that your company engegaed in a marketing campaign Insipidly
dubbed Project SCUM (Subcuflure Urban Marketing). ls this an accurate
fepon?

[have no issue with RJ, Reynolds applying brand marketing to gay
markets, and 9s a matter of fact, | quite welcome it. However, this
Uunforiunate acronym gives me cause far concern, Is i Rl. Reynolds view
that |, and others like me, are indeed "scum"? I have to deal with this

att of altitude enough already and would rather not support any agency,
‘corporation, of group that holds these views. | can quite easily swilch
back to Marlboro as well as avoid all Nabsico products if this is the

vege cose7s
