woz

Product Standards

CA: Senate Votes For Fire-Safe Cigareres

The California Senate voted on June 29" for a measure
requiring that alt cigarettes sold in the Stale be fire
safe as of July 1, 2002, allowing the State Fire Marshal
ro comract with the Bureau of Home Furnishings to
develop cigarette fire safety standards, The bill has
‘been sent to the Assembly. In New York, Govemnor
‘George Pataki has promised to sign a similar measure
passed by the Stare logistanure 1wo weeks ego (AP
6129).

Cigar Warnings No Big Desl, Say Smokers
‘Cigar smokers old the Raleigh News & Observer on
June 28" that the cecent Federal Trade Commission
‘order putting warning labels on cigar packages was
“alarmist.” Smoking a Dow Jase, George Pequignot
said, “No. I'mnot scared of no waming label,” while
another smoker Chatles Robeson said the warnings
‘would not affect young people who find cigars cool.
Health experts also believe the warning labels may not
hhave much impact if they are like those on cigareute
packs (Rileigh News & Observer 6/29).

In Court

FIL: Bngle Closing Arguments ‘To Begin 7/10
Closing arguments in the punitive phase of the Florida
Engle trial will begin on July 10”, with both the
plaintiffs and the industry likely to present for 1-2 days
each during that week. The jury is expected to begin
its deliberations on July 17°, with a verdict within a
ay oF wo. Credit Suisse First Boston analysts expect
the jury to return a “relatively large lump-sum punitive,
damage award,” bot added that “itis important to note
that we continue 10 believe the case will eventually be
dismissed or decertified on appeal.” Sanford C.
Bernstein analysis said itis not yet clear whether the
jury will be awarding dantages in a lump sum or in
soparate sums sgainst each company, although each
company tried to distinguish themselves from others,
‘They belive, however, that che jury will award the
plaintiffs whatever amount plainiffs attorney Stanley
Rosenblatt asks far (CSFB 7/5, Bemstein Research
Call 76).

‘The final defense witness took the stand on
June 29", Brown & Williamson divisional vice
‘President Trudy Bourgeois denied that the compony
largeted childeen, new smokers or minorities, sdding
hat the company hopes to develop a “safer” product
(AP e729),

RIACDOCIO 129015495.
70057 2155

IN: Appeals Court Reverses 1996 Verdict

‘The Indiana Count of Appeals on June 30” reversed a
Marion County Superior Coun’ ruling of a 1996
product liability and wrongful death lawauit, dociding
that Judge Kemmeth Johnson's allowing of a post-trial
press conference by the jurors had undecmined public
confidence in the verdicl. Michael Holland, axiomey
for the plaintiff Yvonne Rogers, widow of smoker
Richard Rogers, bad argued that Judge Johnson
improperly influenced deliberations with his assent to
she press conference. The Court of Appeals agreed,
ruling 2-1 that “Specifically, if a paniculas juror was
‘uneasy about rendering a verdict in favor of the
tobaceo company defendants, lhe opportunity (© hold a
press conference following the reading of the verdict
may have cured this uneasiness by allowing this juror
(© explain his oc ber decision to the public.”

If the decision is not appealed, there could be
aa third il in the suit; the first jury in 1995 reacted &
deadlock, and the second found in favor of the
industry when in August 1996, the jury found
‘defendant cigareste companies R.J. Reynolds Tobacco
o., Phillip Monts Inc., American Tobacco Co., and
Liggett Group, Ine. not responsible for the doath of
‘Ms. Yvonne Roger's husband. Mr, Holland said he
‘and his client were excited ebout the prospects of a
‘new trial in which he could use industry docunents
that have come to light in the past four years (AP 6/30,
Indianapolis Star 7/1),

leps esLes
