2078850969

Original Message:
From: Berlind, Mark
Sent: Monday, August 21, 2000 8:42 AM

To: Scruggé, John; Poole, Jay: Nicoll, Davids Spector, James; Collamore, Tom:
Parrish, Steve: Carney, Alfonso; Merlo, Ellen; Pfeil, Michael £.7 Culley, 2iz:
Keane, Denise: Hureitz, Even; Barrington, Marty; Desel, Paula; Nelson, John R.
(gack); Solana, Rick P.; ‘dim Lindheim'

Subject Patition to FDA to Regulate Eclipse

Relow is an article from Saturday's Winaton-Salem Journal indicating that a
number of public health groups have, as anticipated for several months now,
filed a petition with EDA seeking to hava Eclipse regulated as a drug/dalivery
device. (There apparently will aleo be 2 petition to the FIC attacking the
veracity of the actual claims that RJR is making.) According to the article,
the petition does not aak that Accord be subject to such regulation. Once we
receive the actual petition, I'11 circulate it, along with any additional
preliminary information or analysis.

To review the bidding on this, last Spring, RUR re-introduced its Eclipse
product with a new marketing campaign, claiming that it reduces smokers" risk of
cancer and other diseases. The petitioners say that these are “health” or
“therapeutic” claims, which, according te then, now put Eclipse outside the
scope of the recent Supreme Court decision striking doxn the PDA tobacco rule,
and permit FOA to assert its drug/device authority, because the decision {and
the FDA rulemaking) applies only te tebacco products "ae custowarily marketed”
(1.e., without health claims).

PR, for its part, has asserted in the media that (a) claims of reduced risk are
not "therapeutic", because they don't purport to cure any disease and {by even
Lf the claima are desmed to ke “therapeutic", the Suprame Court decision
precludes any FDA regulation of "the tobacco induatry". (They make the Latter
argunent notwithstanding thelr own brief to the Supreme Court, in which thay
stated that one major distinction between cigarettes and genuine medical devices
ie that no health claims are made for cigarettea.}

The article quotes Matt Myers as distinguishing Accord from Eclipse, in pare
becausa PM USA is not making any health claims about Accord.

The petition process ~~ which, as @ practical matter, could go on for yeara --
noreally affords the public an opportunity to coment, a0 others may weigh in,
Ancluding other tobacco manufacturers.

Prediction: If FDA denies the patition on the grounds that it has no authority
An tha wake of the Suprams Court decision, petitioners will wcgue that this
episode 19 an additional reason that Congress must confer “unfettered suthority*
upon the agency, 30 that unregulated health clains can be brought ander control.
If PDA attempts te assert jurisdiction, RJR will likely litigate, and the fact
of the litigation will likawise be cited as a reason for Congressional action,
90 that FUA does not nave to ba dragged through the courts every tise it
atenpts to take action regarding novel tobacco or nicotine products.

