Padreza, Ket .

From: Canines, Edvard L.
Sant Monday, November 05, 2001 11:05 AM
Ta: ‘Keith.Oarrall@doh gsi.gov.uk’
Subject: RE: Your paper on cigarette additives

‘Trank you lor your comment on the paper, Tables 1 and 2in the paper are correct, There is a discussion on page 11 of
the paper that is relevant to the issue,

Basically, PG was the vehicle for the flavor system used an test cigarette 1. In making the cigarettes, itis important to
balance the volume of Ingredients added so that the cigarettes will burn in a comparable manner. In tast cigaratte 1 for he
low concentration of added ingredients, he solutions of ingradients were mad wih PG as the vehicie and additional PG
fcded to match he volume of ingredients to be added in tha high level of test clgarente 1. Essantially, the solulions were
fojusted lo Ihe Same volume with PG. This resulted in a larger amount of PG being addad to the “iow” concentration group.
Of cigarette 1 than ina "high concenirallon group. We analyzed the cigarettes for PG and confined this relationship
(Table 4). The PG amount represented 21% of the added Ingredicnts inthe low concentration of test cigarette + {which
‘wae the high dose of PG) and 5% of the high concentration of test cigarette 1 {which was the low dose of PG).

Pease foe! res to contaot me if can be of further help.

hope this clears up your que:

Ed Carmines
Principal Scientist
Philp Morris USA,
804-274-6608
—ongjnal Massage
"Kath Darra @aoh.9m, gov uk [SMTP-Kath Daall@ sch gsi gaven|
‘Wednesday, Optobor 31, 2001 17:18 AM
FdweedLearminas@ praus.comt
‘Yast papor on eigareteadaves

Dr Cannines,

Lam a consuttant werking for ihe UK Department of Health (Tobacco
Poligy Unit). Recently a vary detailed submission was made ty Philip
Mortis International to this Department regarding cigarette additives, and
in particular the Philip Mortis view conceming brands containing American
blends. ti part of my ramit to look at this submission In detail,

Amongst the papers is an uncotractad proof copy of your part 1 paper to the
Joumalof Food and Chemical Toxicolegy.

In reading this very interesting | should tka to bring to your attention &
possible misprint. In ‘able 2, the leval lar propytene glycol in the Group,

4 flavouring is svbstantally higher in the "Low" version {22710 ppm)
compared to the High version (7472 ppm). This appears to be inconsistant
‘with the low/high philosophy of your test protocol - especially for a
‘compound with a very significa! loading, Are you able to comment on this
‘Observalion?, Il incorrect, it will obviously aftect the value of the
peraantage tolal ackied ingredients in Table 1.

“Thank you in advance for any help that you can gw,
Yours sineeroly

Keith G Darra
Scientific Consultant to Tobacco Policy Unit, UK Department of Health

9786652907
