Date: august 10, 1595
Fox Release: Imnediately
Contact: FDA Press Office, (302) 443-1130

CHILDREN AND TOBACCO: THE
PROPOSAL

The Clinton Administcation is proposing a comprehensive and coordinated plan to reduce
smoking by children and adolescents by 50 percent. It builds on previous actions taken by
‘Congress and others such as the ban on television advertising and state laws to prohibit
the sale or use of tobacco by children. It follows recommendations by the American
Medicat Association and the Institute of Medicine, Experts have consisteatly
recoramended that the keys to achieving the goal ate; reducing access and limiting the
appeal for children, This ambitious initiative accomplishes thal objective, while
preserving the availability of tobacco products for adults, The proposals announced today
include:

Reducing Basy Access by Children

+ Require age verification and face-to-face sale nnd eliminate mail order sales,
vonding machines, free samples, self- service displays, and sale of single
cigareties ("loosies”) and packages with fewer than 20 cigarettes ("kiddie packs").

Reducing Appeal to Children

+ Ban ouldoor advertising within 1,000 feel of schools and playgrounds, Permit
black-and-white lex only advertising for ail other outdoor advertising, including
billboards, signs inside and outside of buses, and all point-of-sale advertising.

+ Permit black-and-white text only advertising in publications with significant
youth readership (under 18). (Significant readership means more than 15 percent
or more than 2 million. No restrictions on print advertising below those
thresholds).

+ Prokibit sale or giveaway of products like caps or gym bags that camry cigaretic or
smokeless tobscro product brand names or logos, Prohibit exchange of non-
tebaeco products for proof of purchase of tobacco products.

+ Prohibit brand name sponsorship of sporting or enteriainment events, but permit it
in the corporate name.

+ Require industry to fund ($150 million annually) a public education campaign to
prevent kids from smoking.

‘RJROooONNNNNSNNS92

70052 8043

PLLS Bs0es

