Eke Comp
Wecinosdoy. Janwory 14. 1906 1:02 AM
‘Cerchrnon Fichar: Ci Ly; Horotd Bury: Jornes Myrock:Richord Cox Urs Ny'olt: Bickel, Jo: Bab Fenner:
Boo Moti: Comabel. Chit: Conte, Alar ick heratick Goutorn Nave: George Yatra Gisenciornen.
Sabrina: Gomes, John: Gregory Ray, Hogan, fork. Jane Lows Jensen, Noncy: Kotor, DebUIS: Nolan Pete:
Noo Moench: Par Grantham: Pacraza, Ken: Ray Adkine Robin Kinwer, $7, uy Solana. REX Viv Sh,
‘Vivian Witt; Whiloy Jory: Bice Davies Bugg Joy: Cerrtyn Keane: Dabble Keaer Elk Colyer,
Loreen McApin; Sooman Jat: Tomexa Bony
fibject Us of Sources

‘This transmission (and/or the documents accompanying I) may contain confidential
information belonging to the sender, The information is intended only for tle use of the
iddcessee ox entity named above. If you are not the intended recipieal, yau are hereby
‘tified that any diectonure, copying, distribution or the taking of any aetlon in reliance of
the contents of this inforntation is striely prohibited by lav. If you have recelved this
‘trmusmission in error, please immediately notify me by telephone (804-274-8572) to
arrange for the retara of the documents.

For WSA future purposes and for John Mulderig, | would appreciate your providing mea list of individuals who.
hhave some experience, expertise, and/or abilty to learn the axternal Keralure and/or the intemal work io the
following areas:

ay

Smoking ahd Health - Solana, Carchman, Scoman, Sandora
‘Smoking Behavior and Necotine - Gullotts, Seeman
‘Armonia - Seeman, Shater, Benyasy, Whidby

Ingredients - Wiliams, Cook

Nivosarines - Kinser, Hompting

INBIFO - Cox, Elis, Carchmen Solana

ETS - Sanders, Carchman, Leyden

(Manufacturing - Burley, Holland

Cigarette Design - Dwyer, Yatra, Myracia

Please list those that are obvious (8. David Willams for lngrediards} and those that are net so obvious ainca the
intent here is to develop more depth in our sourcing abilities. _Des'gnating someone does not imply commamertt
of time, thei acceptance of the task, or our acceptance of them as @ source. This exercise is for inlormation
Purposes only at this time,

appreciate your thoughtful altention to thie knportant experciae.
Pleaea provide before January 26.

Page 1

VEBSOZELLOZ
