November 10, 1995
To: Tom Griscom

Subject:

Corporate Affairs Weekly Report

Souther California

‘Santa Barbara Hispanic Chamber of Commerce -- Jim Duran and his wife attended
this organization's first anniversary banquet in Santa Barbara, Califomia on November
17, 1995, They hosted the table purchased by Public Issues and the guests included
local retailer, Bob and Elaine Jewel, United Hispanic Chamber of Commerce President,
German Barrera, Santa Barbara KAGRO President, Mr. and Mrs. Steve Kim, Santa
Barbara KAGRO Vice President, Brian Shim and Mr. Carlos Solorzano, President Napa
Valley Hispanic Chamber af Commerce. Many local and state elected officals attended
the event. Duran, along with KAGRO and local retailer, Bob Jewel took this opportunity
to discuss county and city issues with Santa Barbara Hispanic Chamber of Commerce
President, Migue! Avila. He committed to calling City Councilman Gil Garcia to oppose.
the issue. Consequently, the City Council voted to extend their decision on the issue
another 6 months. Duran established excellent contacts with chamber members and
local elected officials.

Ouran attended the Galifornia State Hispanic Chamber of Commerce's quarterly
meeting on November 18. He was the only member of the Orange County Chamber of
Commerce in attendance and was asked to make the formal acceptance remarks on
behaff of his group. Orange County will host the annual Califomia Hispanic Chamber of
Commerce State Business Conference in September 1996.

Souther Calitomia Region Rudy Hernandez Chapter of the 11th Airborne
‘Association - On November 9, RJRT and Jim Duran were honored by this group for
Support of the association's annual commemoration of the 11th Airborne rescue of over
2,000 prisoners of war behind Japanese lines in the Philippines on February 23, 1945.
The event was held at La Casa Garcia in Anaheim, California, He accepted the
plaques and the official Special Order presented by Colonel Leonard Wallach, U.S.
Army, Ret.

Campfire Boys and Girls Sting Operation -- The Orange County Register ran an
article on a sting operation conducted by the Campfire Boys and Girls. As part of the
sting, KAGRO members were approached, but did not sell to the minors. This incident
substantiates the value of the "Support the Law" training provided to this group by RIRT
earlier in the year. Duran made KAGRO President, Brian Lee aware of the article and
in turn Lee wrote a letter to the editor of the Register informing them that OG KAGRO
members are aware of the law and are responsible retailers who support the law.

RJROOd0DD0502030009

70019 4210

9118 oogzg

