Original Mewsage=s-.
Eom: Marsch, Oarryi R. [mai1to:MARSCHD@RIAT. con)
Sent: Wednesday, May 23, 2001 10:38 AM

Tor Haney H. Bell (E-mail); Hark H. Berlind (e-mail)
Subject: Reilly bills

He had agreed earlier to share the bills on the Reilly case from the core.
petition on. We never agreed on any specifica. Now La

the time to coal them. ‘should we divide them equally or by market share?
I agsume that PM would cizculate # bill for Munger Tolle

work and ROR would circulate one for Jones Day work.

For Mark's benefit, Au# stated up front that they wore only going along for
the ride and that they would not be paying.

I would welcome auggestions about how to divide up che bills.

~ Darryl.

CONFTDENTIALITY NOTE: This e-naal message, including any attachment(s},
contains information that may be confidential, protected by the
attorney-client or other Legal privileges, and/or proprietary no
information. If you are not an intended recipient of thls message or an
iuthorlzed @esistane to an intended cecipient, please notify the sander by

zeplying to thig message and then delete it Crom your yysten. Us

Gissemination, distribution, or reproduction of this message and/or any of

ies attachments (if any] by unintended recipients is not authorized ant nay

be unlawful.

GONFICENTIALITY NOTE: This e-med2 message, including any attachment(s),

containa information that may be confidential, protected by the

attornay-client or other legal privileges, and/or proprietary nen-public

information. If you are not an intended recipient of this message or an

gothorized assistant to an intended recipient, please notify the sender by

replying to this message and then delete it from your aysten. User

Gisseminstion, distribution, or reproduction of this message and/or any af

its artachnents (if any) by unintended recipients is not authorized and may

be unlawful.

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTE: This acmail message, including any attachnent(s}, contain
Anfarmation that may be confidential, protected by the attorney-client or ether legal
privileges, ond/ox proprietary non-public information. If you are not an intended
recipient of this message ar an authorized assistant to an intended recipient. pleas
notity the sender by replying to this message and then delete it from your eyeten’ Use,
dissemination, distribution, or reproduction of thia message and/or any of its attachaents
{1f any) by unintended recipionta is not authorized and may be unlawful.

WSR9E825807
