From: Seckar, Joe!

To: Gamer, Chuck D.

CC: Abrams, Hugh B.; Ainsworth, W.E. (Gene); Armstrong, Stephen T.; Burger, Gary
: Caldwell, Alan L.; Carter, Michael D., Davis, Layten; Fussell, H. James: Jones,
lurray W.; Kornegay, Rob; Lamonds, Don 1; Lawson, J.W.(Brands); Ligon, David T.;
Moskowitz, Sch W.; Payne, Maura; Robinson, Wesley E.; Schmidt, Vernon: Seckar,
Jocl; Steichen, Thomas; Sirawsburg, Steve R.; Suber, Robert (Bob); Ward, Mary:
Warren, Reba

Received Date: 1999-Nov-02 16:2
Subjects Phosphine Registrants Negotiation Meeting with EPA

Chuck,

Last Wednesday (27 October) I uttended a meeting in the moming with the phosphine
registrants al Jellinck, Schwartz. & Connolly to prepare for the registrants’ second
negotiation meeting with EPA to finalize the RMMs and final label wording which
occurred at EPA's facilities during the afternoon. Lois Rossi was present and was helpful
in finalizing many of the issues discussed during the meeting, The following were the key
decisions made during the negotiations with EPA;

* A centfied applicator most be physically present during the initiation of all fumigetions
‘and must maintain visual and/or voice contact with all fumigation workers under his/her
supervision.

* A copy of the applicator’s manual must precede or accompany all transportation,
‘containers or vehicles.

% IC there is any incident involving adverse affects to health or environment involving the
use of phosphine, the applicator most repon it to the registrant of the produat being used
by the applicator. The registrants will jointly prepare a report to EPA for calendar year
2000 summarizing and categorizing ail incidents reported.

* There was a long discussion on buffer zones and monitoring at the feneeline. Lois Rossi
agreed that these issues were site specific and that the fomigation management plan
should determine whether or not buffer 2ones or fenceline measurements are necessary.
‘Meoting the exposure standard would be the point of enforcement rather than the quality
of the fumigation management plan.

* Fomnigation management plans and related documentation, including monitoring
records, must be maintained at the site for a minimum of 2 years.

* Training was a major (opic of discussion. Two EPA training representatives agreed
with the registranls that BPA, rather than the registrants, would take the lead in
developing training modules and certification exams. The EPA would issue regulations 0

RJRO000001531101077

70029 3872

LLLy 9682S
