Walk, Roger A.

Piunkett, Susan E.
Tuesday, July 14, 2000 1:53 PM

‘Welk, Roger A.

RE: Collection of information re extemal awarde

j have already collected allthis information and passed it on to kathy mitchell to eubrnltto dick and then to new york.
‘am surprised that cck did not mention thal had almost finished miy dala collection, excluding ashiand which ihave since
received.

| did not email Tepsta {1 am not farntiar with this name), Buti will today.

am sory that | did not inleude you in the bulk email that sent oul requesting information.

‘bwil foward you the ema that originally sent out, s0 that you can see the distribution at.

—ongine Megssgo—
From Wak, Reger A.

Sent: Tuesday, duly 11, 2000 11:96 AM

To: Plunket, Susan E

oe (Cox, Richara

‘Subject: FW: Colealon af information re externa! wwards
Doar Susan,

{just had a discussion with Dick ro the colfection of the information regarding rewards of RD&E sclentists. Given the
-gensitivty ofthis area for cur staff wa recommend to use the RDSE Tochnology distibution to collect the information in
Richmond. | have drafted a suggestion for the request. We have also checked with HR’ abaut this aracass, So perhaps
YOU can post the requost and send tt out.

For the scientists in Neuchatel, Cologne and Brussels you might consider fo send it fo thelr general management
(Kassman, Reininghaus and Tepsire) for their distribution.

Plosse let me know, when you have any questions ar thoughts on this,

Regards,
Roger Walk

ORAFT:
Dear att,

Could you please let me kriow who of the PM employees workiwide recelved extemal awards for sclenlife/lechnical
accomplishments during the last 3 years (from Jan. 4, 1988 untl today) ?

Please communicate relevant information about yourself or of colleagues (especially those who are not on this
dlstibution list),

Please communicate {f known and If you are comfortable to share the Information):

-When and where was ft deolaredihanded over?
“Comments

‘Thank you for your cooperation.

SLLpeeZgoz |
