‘37992

Yooms are unlocked but are controlled address.‘The requester mast also verify
ty onsite personnel his or her demtily by providing either

3, Procedural and Technical snolarizaion of the request or 2 Willen
Safeguards: A password is tequited to certification that the requester is who he
‘access the terminal, and a dataset name or she claims to be. Indlvidals most

cconteas the release of data to only provide the [allowing information for
authorized osers. All users of personal their records to be located and
information in connection with the identified: (&) Full nar, (0) parking
pevformance of their jobs (see space number (if appropriate), (@)
‘Antherized Users above} protect schicle license number Gf appropriate)
information from public view snd from and (2) for the PSC Transhare Program,
‘unauthorized personnel emeringan the requester ust provide the
unsupervised office. commuter eard nusther and the dates of

4. Contractor Guidelines. Acontrsctor participation mn the Progtany. The
Wen records under routine use requester must also understand thal the
tain the xecords in 8 ‘knowing and sillfl request for
allow only those sequisition of w record periaining wo am
individuals immediately involved in the individuel under false pretenses i &
processing of the recerds 19 have acecss criminal oflense subject to fine. AN
{osthem, prevent unauthorized persons individual who x he subjoct of ocords
fram gaining secess (a the ecords, and maintained in this racords rystem may

reluen the records to the System also request af accoun ing of
Manager immediately upon completion disclosures that have been made of his,
ofthe work specified inthe conttact, or her zecords

Contractor compliance is assured ‘Requesis by telephone: Since positive
through inclusion of Privacy Act dentification of the caller cannot be
requirements in contract claves, and established, telephone requesis ae nat
through monitoring by comteact and honored.

project officers, Contractors who coesis Recorerocenures:

iaintain records ate instructed lo make
ino disclosure ofthe records except at
authorized by the System Manager and
assisted in the contract

Contact the System Manager specificd
above and reasonably identily the
record, specify the information to be
‘cmtested, the corrective action sought,
Fetomen oso: aud your seasons fer requesting the
Parking records conection, slong with supporting
varying perieds of ines accordance information n show how the record is
with NARA General Records Schedule inaccurate, incomplete, untimely or

11 (parking permits). Disposs] of imelevamt
manuel rors is by shredding: recoro source cxrmanness:
lecironie data is erased.

Records are developed from

PSC Transhare tecords wreretained ——inforrution supplied by applicants and,

fora maximum of wo yearsfolloving fare ied £2 applicants an
the last month ofan eniployce’s fr handicapped! patking assignments,

paticipation in the PSC Transhare DY Phyievans and supervisors.

Program. Paper copies sre destroyed by SYSTEMS) DEMPTED FOU CERTAN FROMSOHS.
shredding, Computer files sre destroyed OF HEACT:

‘by deleting the record from the fils, None.

WRDoe, 99417762 Filed 7413498; 8:¢5 a]
BUUNC CODE esr

Information -

anegement DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
rls ice, PSC, som $20), HUMAN SERVICES

Stoo Fishers Lane, Rooks,

sioor Pubile Hoalth Service

vomcaren recone Natlon Trdology Program: Meeting
Same ss Access Procedores, The ‘National Toxicology Program Public

requester i equived to speefy Mesting w receive comment on the

reasonably the contents ofthe reoords review procedures and listing aitria

eing coogi, ‘sed inthe preparation ofthe DHS

Reporton Gucinegens oC) September

NeCarO haces ROCEDARES 18, 1999, Ronald Reagan Building, The
“Todstermine whether information Inetnaional Trade Cent, 1300.

about themselves is contained n this Pennsylvonis Avenue,

4ystem, the subjeet individual should Room, Washinglon, DC, beginning at
Cconiact the System Manager at tte above am,

RJR0000001667105483
Pood! at7e

‘The Nationa) Toxicology Program
announees a pubine meeting forthe
purpose of reviewing nominations for
isting in ox listing fiom the RoC-and
the currea! listing eruteria used for
evaluation of te nominations te the
RoC. The purpose oF this public meeting
is teobiain input and to provide all
Interested partes an opportanily lo
express theie views about ihe review
Drocess and/or the evaluation eviesia
fd lo comimealon the views expressed
by amhers.

‘The meeting will begin 9am. and
will consinde af $p.m- oral the
conclusion of the poblie comment and
discussion, iC suoner. On-site

ion will begin at 8:30 a.m,
gatding reistation {elle
Attendance st ihe mecting i imited
‘only by the space available,

Backgrosnd
“The DATES Report on Carsinogens
(oC); » public information dovuntent
prepared for Re US. Congressy he
Ravonal Tesiology Progam in
Tesponse to Section SDI OT the
Vablic Health Sesvise Act a5 amended
iste provide

flier "know or teasonay
ind shich 9 sigeicent nome ef
eon in he Und State are expored,
The fo edton ofthe report hed
Enown asthe Annual Refer ot
regen) vas pbk in 1980,
Processes were used a cannder
Seated substance or
throogh peparadon of he 7
poblithed 994 In 1984 Dek
Ulden, Dicer of NIP and NiBES
taubiahed ona hoe working group of
the NTP Boar ofSerenie Connseor
snd charged them tn sview and ake
Sammars wot
daqoacy of he esting ters andthe
{ewe RepartIn addon Dy. offen
directed sat he process use to review
nominaion or lstingino detising
from the Report be reviaed to silo
hore pubic npu moagravi he
rotes nd 0 a8 eed eee 9
roaten me sope a eientine revi
‘Avaconsegoence, 1994 and 1985 the
‘rec rere examined by a panel
Sthose member inched academ
ingostey, bor, publi environmestal
Shaanisaens, sat tnd Toca Heath
depacimen's and poverament who mel
in public seion bn publi menting
Retommendavons were made for
revising helsing erin an the
ominaog review process which wre

e9zt zZeoes

