From: CCroty, Kathiean IKCrotty@EM!-CHICAGO.COM]

‘Sent: Friday, March 24, 2000 5:17 PM

To: Jos Czaenecks (E-med)

Ge: ikabiy Strobel (E-mat); Vicki Bemer (E-0a}, May river @pmuse.corm’, Nobel, Pris; Kelley,

Lise; Luburieh, Christina

‘Subject: jament - Max's on Broadway

“
putes
Joa :
Pevee esmrntny cgyGep
imenongaana dfotaronayesann seman Maa
Sean i npc onan ea
rotenone aaah oe ge
daha dwar anette ee rot a
sno amet Staton man eget

(On Tuesday, March 14th, Julie cared Goi! lo confirm their appointment tor
that aflernoon. Despla the fact thet the meeting was scheduled for the next
day, that Gail had not talked to Gina Koubak yet ard that ehe wasn't
prepared to sige @ Partament contract, Gad agraed to meet m the next
Twenty minutes. When Jule arrived, Gail was taken aback by her lack of
professionalism ("dressed inappropriately, too pushy and rude"). Jute
Offered Gad $300 und claimed inal wos what Marlboro was paying her (Max's
{e contracted for $22,000). Gari would not divulge how much Martboro was
ring her and relterated that she wouldn't eign wih Faniament unti she
Spake wom Gina Koubek Or Wednesday, Jule celled Gai to follow-up and
‘lary mal the offer was for $300 per event. Kevin Yarnell (J.he's

Super sor) also called and Gall formed him of her meeting with Full, onc
‘taled thal she wes nol ready to make a cecison. Gail found that Kevin was
‘iso unprofessional as ne treated ter ansietant poorty

On Monday, March 20th Gail informed Jule that she would not run Porflament
fovenls duc to Julle and Kevin's urproteseionaksm. Gal fell that Julie was
rymg 0 shove tha contract down fer throat”, Kevin conlacted Gaon
Wednesday. March 22nd lo see if she would reconsider working with
Parkamant. Gaé avformad Kevin tt hes decision could net be swayed.

Gina Koubek and | spoke with Gail on March 22nd. Gail shared the above
etal and mentioned thal ahe fall J-lie Mabry waa a poor renresanistve of
Philp Mora and the Periarnenl brand. Gat is committed to a relations'w>
‘wilh Moriboro. Gall enjoys working with Marfooro and other Philip Mortis.
Deands at long 28 the individuals on the account ara professional und
tespectlul of Gail's venue and employees.

Please coll witn quastians.

Thanks.
Kalhieen

