ES 0016

Mey, 2000
SPECIAL THIS WEEK... Iyde Anderson and his wife
2nd in Brooklyn, New York. Plaintiff's attomey Leonard Finz claimed
anne ried that Philip Morris Cos. (PM), R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings Inc.
Legislative Bullen 00-18. (BIR) and other cigarette companies conspired to “fraudulently
Special Report 00.02 conceal the dangers and hazards of cigarettes” before health wamings
{US-China Teade Accord [lon cigarette packs were toughened in 1969. RIR’s attomey Stephen
(e-version only) Kaczynski made his opening statements on May 3rd, arguing that

Anderson was aware of risks associated with cigarettes during the 32
years he made the “adult choice” to smoke. Kaczynski st stated that the

Nay Sedan US. Disc Court has added some 2000 addiGonal plaintiffs, bringing the number to 5,930.
“The sult i] more ‘explicit, and spells out how [defendant companies] have rigged the auctions,” the

suit’s leading attorney Alexander J. Pires Jr. stated. The suit lists Philip Morris, R,). Reynolds Tobacco
Co, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. and Lorillard Tobacco Co. as defendants (Richmond Times-
Dispatch 5/5). 90n Apri 28th, Brows & Willemsen Tobacen Comaration told 16. District Iudge

‘om any cases see against the company. ‘Weinstein has pushed for a “global: settement” ‘of tobacco
litigation. @On April 28%, 92 in Wi in Dane County Ci

against the State and major tobacco companies alleging that Governor Tommy Thompson and
Attomey General James Doyle “signed away the counties’ rights to sue the tobacco companies for
smoking-related damages without legal authority to doso.” The counties argue that they should
receive a share of the state’s $5.9 billion settlement money. @A lawsuit filed by the Professional
Billiards Tour against R.}, Reynolds Tobacco Co. (RIR) went on trial this week in North Carolina. The
suit accuses RJR of fraud, deception and unfair trade practices, claiming that the company almost
forced the tour into bankruptcy. RJR denies the charges explaining that it chose not torene its Lyear
contract with the tour. @[zeland/

tonceming company Inowiedge of sous suchas the “addictive” natare of smoking in Be mie 1980s,

If the documents show a clear company awareness of such matters, the committee will likely
recommend that the State bring a suit against them (TW00-18, WA0O-18).

Unanimously passed bill’ aimed at protecting
cas only be used in emergency situations
tax onall w

/ Hiease/Senate conferees have been meeting
this week fo dlscus thebils. One industry souror beleves there is a 4M%e probability that Ee bill on
punitive damages will be passed (Goldman Sachs 5/5). Sanford Bernstein analysts believe that “a

RJROOGG0G1547001055
70062 6276

esie e91es
